[00:00:00] How do I sound? &gt;&gt; You sound perfect. &gt;&gt; You sound perfect. &gt;&gt; You sound great. &gt;&gt; You sound great. &gt;&gt; I look? Yeah, you sound great. Better &gt;&gt; I look? Yeah, you sound great. Better than you look. than you look. You got that face made for radio. You got that face made for radio. You [laughter] don't look as tired as You [laughter] don't look as tired as you have in recent weeks. That's true. you have in recent weeks. That's true. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Somebody was slagging me for the bags &gt;&gt; Somebody was slagging me for the bags under my eyes. I mean, this audience is under my eyes. I mean, this audience is brutal. [music] They're brutal. They're brutal. [music] They're brutal. They're brutal. It's a good thing I'm rich. brutal. It's a good thing I'm rich. &gt;&gt; [laughter] [music] &gt;&gt; You let your winners ride. &gt;&gt; You let your winners ride. Rain Man David Sacks

[00:00:30] Rain Man David Sacks &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; And I said, we open sourced it to the &gt;&gt; And I said, we open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy [music] fans and they've just gone crazy [music] with it. Love you, Sacksy. All right, everybody. Welcome back to the number one podcast in the world. the number one podcast in the world. It's the All-In podcast. With us today, It's the All-In podcast. With us today, Chamath Palihapitiya, David Sacks, and Chamath Palihapitiya, David Sacks, and our fifth bestie, Mr. Brad Gerstner is our fifth bestie, Mr. Brad Gerstner is here. I think David Friedberg is here. I think David Friedberg is suffering from some suffering from some socialist-related flu. He's very sick of socialist-related flu. He's very sick of reading about socialists, but he'll be

[00:01:01] reading about socialists, but he'll be back next week with two incredible, back next week with two incredible, incredible interviews. You guys see incredible interviews. You guys see those Spencer Pratt ads? Wow. those Spencer Pratt ads? Wow. &gt;&gt; It's one of the best political ads I've &gt;&gt; It's one of the best political ads I've ever ever seen. Oh, there's like three ever ever seen. Oh, there's like three or four of them. or four of them. &gt;&gt; There are multiples. Yeah. &gt;&gt; There are multiples. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Whoever that social media team is is on &gt;&gt; Whoever that social media team is is on fire. If you get a good social media fire. If you get a good social media team and you get a good ad production team and you get a good ad production team, I think it's next gen cuz these team, I think it's next gen cuz these things go crazy. And Spencer Pratt, if things go crazy. And Spencer Pratt, if he wins this election, which I think he wins this election, which I think he's going to in Los Angeles, the reason he's going to in Los Angeles, the reason is what Brad said. Those ads are is what Brad said. Those ads are incredible. Well, he's also quite a good incredible. Well, he's also quite a good debater. Did you see clips from this

[00:01:33] debater. Did you see clips from this debate? Incredible. He's so funny. He's debate? Incredible. He's so funny. He's so chill. Yeah, well, he's up against so chill. Yeah, well, he's up against Karen Bass, who's the mayor, who is Karen Bass, who's the mayor, who is basically extremely left-wing. And then basically extremely left-wing. And then there's someone who's a city there's someone who's a city councilwoman, who's even further to the councilwoman, who's even further to the left of Karen Bass. I mean, she's Yeah, left of Karen Bass. I mean, she's Yeah, yeah. yeah. &gt;&gt; often like Fidel Castro territory. She's &gt;&gt; often like Fidel Castro territory. She's an Indian Fidel Castro. Raman. So, she an Indian Fidel Castro. Raman. So, she was basically, I guess, criticizing the was basically, I guess, criticizing the mayor for the homelessness problem. mayor for the homelessness problem. And then Pratt pointed out that this And then Pratt pointed out that this councilwoman is actually in charge of

[00:02:04] councilwoman is actually in charge of all these homeless programs already. all these homeless programs already. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; He eviscerated her. He eviscerated her. &gt;&gt; He eviscerated her. He eviscerated her. And he basically made the key point, And he basically made the key point, which is, "Look, the problem here is not which is, "Look, the problem here is not lack of housing, it's an addiction lack of housing, it's an addiction issue, and it's a mental illness issue." issue, and it's a mental illness issue." And he said, "Look, if you And he said, "Look, if you &gt;&gt; he said &gt;&gt; he said he said if she went to the street, she'd he said if she went to the street, she'd get stabbed in the neck. Yeah. get stabbed in the neck. Yeah. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Which is pretty accurate if you've been &gt;&gt; Which is pretty accurate if you've been to Skid Row. I mean, you would not want to Skid Row. I mean, you would not want to walk through there. to walk through there. It was like the Spider-Man photo. It was like the Spider-Man photo. &gt;&gt; got the clip. Play the clip, Nick. Oh, &gt;&gt; got the clip. Play the clip, Nick. Oh, god. This clip is brutal. god. This clip is brutal. &gt;&gt; a different clip, but this one super

[00:02:34] &gt;&gt; a different clip, but this one super viral. It reminded me of Trump a little viral. It reminded me of Trump a little bit. Let's see. I'm not sure how to bit. Let's see. I'm not sure how to respond to that vision of Los Angeles. respond to that vision of Los Angeles. This is a MAGA Republican's idea This is a MAGA Republican's idea of what Los Angeles looks like. This is of what Los Angeles looks like. This is This is really not This is really not &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Unbelievable. &gt;&gt; Unbelievable. For those of you listening, he put his For those of you listening, he put his hands up and wiggled his head like, "Oh hands up and wiggled his head like, "Oh my god." my god." &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Hey, hey, Sax. You know, Stephen Pratt &gt;&gt; Hey, hey, Sax. You know, Stephen Pratt wins mayor, Spencer Pratt. And then wins mayor, Spencer Pratt. And then Spencer the you know, the ballot Spencer the you know, the ballot initiative, the retirement protection initiative, the retirement protection and savings act, right? It's going to

[00:03:04] and savings act, right? It's going to pass going to pass with big numbers. pass going to pass with big numbers. This is the, you know, referendum that This is the, you know, referendum that effectively is going to knock out the effectively is going to knock out the wealth tax. Can you imagine if wealth tax. Can you imagine if California effectively passes a California effectively passes a constitutional amendment protecting constitutional amendment protecting retirement savings and personal assets retirement savings and personal assets and banning the wealth tax and Pratt and banning the wealth tax and Pratt gets elected, the message that would gets elected, the message that would send to the country? That's That's a send to the country? That's That's a very non-consensus view that I'm very non-consensus view that I'm becoming increasingly optimistic about. becoming increasingly optimistic about. Well, from your lips to God's ears. Well, from your lips to God's ears. But until that message actually is sent, But until that message actually is sent, I think I'm going to be uh in Texas. In

[00:03:37] I think I'm going to be uh in Texas. In Texas. Texas. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Well, I mean, this is also in the face &gt;&gt; Well, I mean, this is also in the face of I don't know, just a follow-up story of I don't know, just a follow-up story here, but Mondami did like an attack here, but Mondami did like an attack video on Ken Griffin's house. We talked video on Ken Griffin's house. We talked about it on the pod a couple weeks ago. about it on the pod a couple weeks ago. And like literally stood in front of his And like literally stood in front of his house, pointed at it. and this is in the house, pointed at it. and this is in the face of like a CEO getting shot for face of like a CEO getting shot for ideological reasons, Sam Altman's house ideological reasons, Sam Altman's house being targeted. This is like a really being targeted. This is like a really dangerous thing for Mondami to do. dangerous thing for Mondami to do. And Ken Griffin came out today in or And Ken Griffin came out today in or yesterday in an interview and said, yesterday in an interview and said, "Hey, listen, I'm out. We're going to be

[00:04:07] "Hey, listen, I'm out. We're going to be putting our efforts into putting our efforts into Florida." And this is the same thing Florida." And this is the same thing that happened to Chicago, and he that happened to Chicago, and he basically said like I really felt basically said like I really felt offended and I was, you know, nervous offended and I was, you know, nervous about this about this because of my personal safety. And he because of my personal safety. And he called him out. Mondami came out with called him out. Mondami came out with like a a mealy-mouthed response that like a a mealy-mouthed response that didn't even apologize for what he did. didn't even apologize for what he did. Just double down on it essentially. All Just double down on it essentially. All right, let's get to the I don't know if right, let's get to the I don't know if you guys saw it or not, but who cares? you guys saw it or not, but who cares? And New York is becoming a flyover city. And New York is becoming a flyover city. It's an interesting way to put it. Don't It's an interesting way to put it. Don't disagree. All right, first story. Elon

[00:04:39] disagree. All right, first story. Elon just leased all of Colossus 1. His data just leased all of Colossus 1. His data center? He did? center? He did? Nostro What? What? Nostro What? What? Yes, shocking to Dario and Anthropic. Yes, shocking to Dario and Anthropic. Chamath on this week's pod. Go ahead and Chamath on this week's pod. Go ahead and give yourself a pat on the back. You give yourself a pat on the back. You said Elon and Dario should do a deal said Elon and Dario should do a deal tomorrow. It didn't happen. The next day tomorrow. It didn't happen. The next day it happened 5 days later, so you came it happened 5 days later, so you came close, Chamath. But no cigar because of close, Chamath. But no cigar because of Anthropic's obvious compute constraints. Anthropic's obvious compute constraints. Anthropic just added over 220,000 Nvidia Anthropic just added over 220,000 Nvidia GPUs, over 300 megawatts of energy.

[00:05:10] GPUs, over 300 megawatts of energy. The deal is already having an impact as The deal is already having an impact as we've discussed here. Claude users have we've discussed here. Claude users have been experiencing rate limits. Well, been experiencing rate limits. Well, Claude has now doubled the Claude code Claude has now doubled the Claude code rate limits, removed peak usage caps for rate limits, removed peak usage caps for paid users, and increased API volumes paid users, and increased API volumes for Opus models. XAI is now trading for Opus models. XAI is now trading their models at Colossus 2. So, they their models at Colossus 2. So, they have more than enough compute. Elon made have more than enough compute. Elon made a great bet a great bet on compute and built up those data on compute and built up those data centers really fast, and that is now centers really fast, and that is now paying off. We had the cursor deal we paying off. We had the cursor deal we talked about last week. Let's talk about

[00:05:41] talked about last week. Let's talk about the emergence of Elon Web Services, EWS, the emergence of Elon Web Services, EWS, Chamath. He is now in the hyperscaler Chamath. He is now in the hyperscaler competing against Google Cloud, Amazon competing against Google Cloud, Amazon Web Services, and Azure. And uh I don't Web Services, and Azure. And uh I don't know if you had inside information or know if you had inside information or just a brilliant uh epiphany, but uh just a brilliant uh epiphany, but uh take us behind the call and what do you take us behind the call and what do you think about the deal itself? think about the deal itself? I think the deal is fantastic. I'll say I think the deal is fantastic. I'll say maybe three quick things. maybe three quick things. The first is, as I mentioned a couple The first is, as I mentioned a couple weeks ago, weeks ago, Anthropic

[00:06:11] Anthropic and OpenAI's revenue performance has and OpenAI's revenue performance has nothing to do with demand. Zero. nothing to do with demand. Zero. It is entirely to do with the supply It is entirely to do with the supply constraints that exist in data centers constraints that exist in data centers and specifically in power. and specifically in power. If they had infinite power, I think that If they had infinite power, I think that their revenues would probably be even their revenues would probably be even more parabolic. more parabolic. And so all the breathlessness about And so all the breathlessness about either exceeding or underperforming a either exceeding or underperforming a forecast, in my opinion, mean nothing. forecast, in my opinion, mean nothing. I think the five-year view

[00:06:42] I think the five-year view for those two companies for those two companies is quite robust. is quite robust. The thing that they really need is more The thing that they really need is more compute and more power. That's the first compute and more power. That's the first thing. thing. The second thing is, while they need The second thing is, while they need that, we have a very big problem, that, we have a very big problem, which is we unfortunately have very poor which is we unfortunately have very poor leadership leadership at the head at the head of most of these AI firms. of most of these AI firms. I think they are coming off as I think they are coming off as untrustworthy or too self-interested.

[00:07:13] untrustworthy or too self-interested. The political reaction now The political reaction now is starting to turn negative. is starting to turn negative. The community reaction is negative. The community reaction is negative. You have about nine gigawatts that are You have about nine gigawatts that are supposed to come online this year. supposed to come online this year. Almost 50% of it now is being protested. Almost 50% of it now is being protested. More than likely, if if history holds, More than likely, if if history holds, most of that will get turned off. So most of that will get turned off. So they will get even more supply they will get even more supply constrained. So that's the setup. constrained. So that's the setup. So what's the opportunity? I think for So what's the opportunity? I think for Elon, if you look inside of how people

[00:07:44] Elon, if you look inside of how people try to nitpick the SpaceX valuation try to nitpick the SpaceX valuation case, or let's not even Let's give them case, or let's not even Let's give them Sorry, let's be more generous. Sorry, let's be more generous. When people try to paint the bear case, When people try to paint the bear case, or they try to red team the valuation, or they try to red team the valuation, the biggest element is the on the come the biggest element is the on the come value around the orbital data centers. value around the orbital data centers. And by actually landing a bunch of And by actually landing a bunch of terrestrial capacity, terrestrial capacity, I think you start to blunt that. Because I think you start to blunt that. Because you can now start to say that even if you can now start to say that even if the orbital data centers get delayed by the orbital data centers get delayed by a few months or a few quarters, even if a few months or a few quarters, even if the technological

[00:08:15] the technological de-risking of it takes longer, de-risking of it takes longer, he now has a structural core business he now has a structural core business that will effectively subsidize that will effectively subsidize his ability to train Grok, which I think his ability to train Grok, which I think is a really important and underreported is a really important and underreported theme. theme. So, you have all this infrastructure. So, you have all this infrastructure. He somehow saw the tea leaves He somehow saw the tea leaves before most people. He built to a level before most people. He built to a level of scale and secured power of scale and secured power before most people. It is now become the before most people. It is now become the critical asset. Now, he's critical asset. Now, he's kind of king-making. kind of king-making. And I think that that's a really And I think that that's a really interesting valuation

[00:08:47] interesting valuation reinforcement as SpaceX goes through reinforcement as SpaceX goes through testing the waters in the in the testing the waters in the in the roadshow. Brad, your take. roadshow. Brad, your take. Yeah, no, I think it's well said. I Yeah, no, I think it's well said. I mean, first we we know that there's mean, first we we know that there's nobody better on planet Earth than Elon nobody better on planet Earth than Elon at converting electrons to tokens. It's at converting electrons to tokens. It's a critically important evolution to the a critically important evolution to the story. You know, I think our friend story. You know, I think our friend Shawn Maguire, he he he sent out a tweet Shawn Maguire, he he he sent out a tweet that summed it up well, and he said that summed it up well, and he said SpaceX has this five-layer cake: launch, SpaceX has this five-layer cake: launch, connectivity, compute, hyperscaler, connectivity, compute, hyperscaler, space data centers, and then space data centers, and then applications and models, and then other

[00:09:19] applications and models, and then other bets, right? The question on the bets, right? The question on the roadshow has been, "But x.ai doesn't on roadshow has been, "But x.ai doesn't on the revenue trajectory of OpenAI and and the revenue trajectory of OpenAI and and Anthropic, and yet there are huge Anthropic, and yet there are huge commitments. And now we see the ace card commitments. And now we see the ace card that Elon's playing." He said he was that Elon's playing." He said he was building AWS all along or EWS all along. building AWS all along or EWS all along. And so I estimate that this is going to And so I estimate that this is going to generate in this year an incremental 45 generate in this year an incremental 45 billion dollars of revenue on top of billion dollars of revenue on top of what I have seen analyst estimates in what I have seen analyst estimates in the mid-20s. That's a material amount of

[00:09:51] the mid-20s. That's a material amount of incremental revenue to offset the cost incremental revenue to offset the cost of the investments that he's made here. of the investments that he's made here. And that will subsidize to Chamath's And that will subsidize to Chamath's point all that he's investing to build point all that he's investing to build the next generation of Grok. Remember the next generation of Grok. Remember too that he has three facilities, too that he has three facilities, Colossus, Macro Hard and Macro Harder, Colossus, Macro Hard and Macro Harder, 1.2 gigawatts in Macro Hard and Macro 1.2 gigawatts in Macro Hard and Macro Harder in Blackwell. So he's given the Harder in Blackwell. So he's given the one that's kind of less connected, one that's kind of less connected, H100s, great for inference to Anthropic. H100s, great for inference to Anthropic. He's monetizing it in a big way. It's He's monetizing it in a big way. It's terrific for Anthropic. And it solves

[00:10:24] terrific for Anthropic. And it solves what I think was the biggest question in what I think was the biggest question in the valuation story, which is what if he the valuation story, which is what if he spends ahead of x.ai's revenue. It takes spends ahead of x.ai's revenue. It takes the pressure, Chamath, off x.ai the pressure, Chamath, off x.ai delivering immediate revenue. Now he delivering immediate revenue. Now he becomes becomes uh an immediate competitor in the uh an immediate competitor in the hyperscale. I don't think this is the hyperscale. I don't think this is the last announcement. I think he's going to last announcement. I think he's going to make a lot more, make a lot more, you know, moves in this direction. I you know, moves in this direction. I think it will be a material part of think it will be a material part of their story and their revenue their story and their revenue projections projections uh as they come together. And I would

[00:10:54] uh as they come together. And I would just say finally, you know, again, just say finally, you know, again, everybody has talked about how we don't everybody has talked about how we don't have enough power, how we don't have have enough power, how we don't have enough compute, how the revenues would enough compute, how the revenues would not show up in this year. You know, but not show up in this year. You know, but the chaos that is American capitalism the chaos that is American capitalism somehow finds a way, okay? And there's somehow finds a way, okay? And there's tremendous demand for Anthropic, and we tremendous demand for Anthropic, and we find a way. I was so happy to see kind find a way. I was so happy to see kind of the detente and the kind exchange of the detente and the kind exchange between the team at Anthropic and Elon between the team at Anthropic and Elon because we need all of this in order to because we need all of this in order to produce uh American frontier models to

[00:11:25] produce uh American frontier models to stay at the frontier. stay at the frontier. And then finally, I just say, you know, And then finally, I just say, you know, Chamath, you referenced these activists Chamath, you referenced these activists that are protesting delaying these data that are protesting delaying these data centers centers in in these localities. One thing I want in in these localities. One thing I want to dispel this myth. These This is not to dispel this myth. These This is not like organic hyper local protests by like organic hyper local protests by people in a community that aren't being people in a community that aren't being spurred on. spurred on. This is highly organized activists that This is highly organized activists that are moving across the country to stir up are moving across the country to stir up trouble in the exact same way they did trouble in the exact same way they did to stop all fission reactors being built to stop all fission reactors being built 30 years ago in America. Now we have no

[00:11:56] 30 years ago in America. Now we have no nuclear reactors being built. China's nuclear reactors being built. China's got a hundred of them. Who was funding got a hundred of them. Who was funding those activists? I think we need to those activists? I think we need to really look into who's funding the really look into who's funding the activists now. I'm not saying that there activists now. I'm not saying that there aren't any concerns, but the aren't any concerns, but the misinformation about water, the misinformation about water, the misinformation about electricity bills misinformation about electricity bills electricity bills are going up in the electricity bills are going up in the places that are not building data places that are not building data centers. New York and California because centers. New York and California because they haven't built any supply on the they haven't built any supply on the grid. In Texas, where you're building grid. In Texas, where you're building the most data centers in the country, the most data centers in the country, electricity costs are going down. So, um

[00:12:27] electricity costs are going down. So, um I'm I I I think that's a boogeyman that I'm I I I think that's a boogeyman that we got to take on. we got to take on. Sacks, sure that's Sacks, sure that's Well, look, the deal is highly Well, look, the deal is highly complimentary as Chamath and Brad complimentary as Chamath and Brad pointed out. SpaceX has a profitable, I pointed out. SpaceX has a profitable, I think very profitable, think very profitable, space and telecommunications Starlink space and telecommunications Starlink business, the satellite business, but business, the satellite business, but the xAI business had huge losses. The the xAI business had huge losses. The reason's pretty straightforward. You reason's pretty straightforward. You need these super large training need these super large training clusters, but they cost a lot of money. clusters, but they cost a lot of money. And until you have a model that's And until you have a model that's capable of competing at the frontier,

[00:12:57] capable of competing at the frontier, you're not making any revenue. And that you're not making any revenue. And that problem was compounded by the fact that problem was compounded by the fact that right now all the revenue is in right now all the revenue is in enterprise, which is to say coding. We enterprise, which is to say coding. We know that xAI just did that deal with know that xAI just did that deal with Cursor to try and catch up, but they Cursor to try and catch up, but they don't have a coding product yet. So, don't have a coding product yet. So, they're not participating in the they're not participating in the revenue, but they're participating in revenue, but they're participating in all of the cost. So, this deal fixes all of the cost. So, this deal fixes that problem. that problem. Elon's now able to have a frontier model Elon's now able to have a frontier model company, but he's able to now not have company, but he's able to now not have these massive unpaid for CapEx these massive unpaid for CapEx commitments, right? Because he's able to commitments, right? Because he's able to kind of lease that capacity. So, I think

[00:13:30] kind of lease that capacity. So, I think it solves a major problem for them and it solves a major problem for them and their balance sheet. And then you have their balance sheet. And then you have to say that for Anthropic, this is a to say that for Anthropic, this is a really great thing because they were really great thing because they were compute constrained. compute constrained. And just to build on that point, I mean, And just to build on that point, I mean, I guess let me be the first to I guess let me be the first to congratulate Dario on winning the AI congratulate Dario on winning the AI race. race. And you've been Let's be honest, Sachs, And you've been Let's be honest, Sachs, you have been you have been on this podcast, you've been moderately on this podcast, you've been moderately critical of that company and Dario critical of that company and Dario himself for being um, you know, a little himself for being um, you know, a little P-doomer 110. And on your X account,

[00:14:00] P-doomer 110. And on your X account, you've been even a little spicier. So, you've been even a little spicier. So, now that there's peace in the Middle now that there's peace in the Middle East of East of of the AI business, what's your take of the AI business, what's your take here? My take is, look, let's just here? My take is, look, let's just honestly and accurately assess where the honestly and accurately assess where the state of this AI market is at right now state of this AI market is at right now and Anthropic's place within it. So, for and Anthropic's place within it. So, for the last 3 years, Anthropic has been the last 3 years, Anthropic has been growing at a rate of 10x a year. growing at a rate of 10x a year. I think going into this year, I think going into this year, probably the conventional wisdom was probably the conventional wisdom was that there'd be no way to sustain that that there'd be no way to sustain that kind of rate of growth at this level of

[00:14:31] kind of rate of growth at this level of scale. And what happened in the first 4 scale. And what happened in the first 4 months of the year? First, we find out months of the year? First, we find out that from January 1st to March 31st, that from January 1st to March 31st, they grew from roughly 10 billion of ARR they grew from roughly 10 billion of ARR to 30 billion. So, it tripled. And then to 30 billion. So, it tripled. And then in April, if anything, the rate of in April, if anything, the rate of increase seemed to accelerate. They went increase seemed to accelerate. They went from 30 to 44 billion of ARR. Nobody in from 30 to 44 billion of ARR. Nobody in Silicon Valley has ever seen anything Silicon Valley has ever seen anything like it. Forget about the rest of the like it. Forget about the rest of the country. I mean, all we do in Silicon country. I mean, all we do in Silicon Valley is deal with exponentials, and Valley is deal with exponentials, and still people have never seen that kind still people have never seen that kind of growth at that level of scale. of growth at that level of scale. The only thing holding them back in the

[00:15:03] The only thing holding them back in the future was compute. Now they've made future was compute. Now they've made this deal. They've made other deals as this deal. They've made other deals as well to get that compute. I think it's well to get that compute. I think it's pretty much a foregone conclusion that pretty much a foregone conclusion that they will hit that forecast of 10x this they will hit that forecast of 10x this year, exiting the year at call it year, exiting the year at call it roughly 100 billion of ARR. And now the roughly 100 billion of ARR. And now the only question is whether they hit a only question is whether they hit a trillion trillion in 2027. in 2027. And we can debate whether that's And we can debate whether that's &gt;&gt; on board. No, we can't we can debate &gt;&gt; on board. No, we can't we can debate whether that's true or not. But look, if whether that's true or not. But look, if they do that, they do that, I think they'll easily be the most I think they'll easily be the most valuable tech company in history. In

[00:15:33] valuable tech company in history. In fact, they might even be more valuable fact, they might even be more valuable than the rest of the Mag 7 put together. than the rest of the Mag 7 put together. Just to give people some basis for Just to give people some basis for comparison here. You know, the biggest comparison here. You know, the biggest tech companies Apple, Nvidia, Nvidia, tech companies Apple, Nvidia, Nvidia, Google. I think they they kind of do Google. I think they they kind of do around 4 to 500 billion a year right now around 4 to 500 billion a year right now of of revenue. I mean, I guess Nvidia's of of revenue. I mean, I guess Nvidia's a little bit of a different category, a little bit of a different category, but you look at you look at Google. but you look at you look at Google. &gt;&gt; the three hyperscalers. Yeah. I mean, &gt;&gt; the three hyperscalers. Yeah. I mean, Google is doing what? Like 120 billion a Google is doing what? Like 120 billion a quarter? Something like that. 100 quarter? Something like that. 100 billion a quarter. Correct. But growing billion a quarter. Correct. But growing at what? 20% year over year? Not 100%

[00:16:03] at what? 20% year over year? Not 100% and certainly not 1,000%. and certainly not 1,000%. So, the fact that Anthropic could be on So, the fact that Anthropic could be on track, in fact, let me correct that. track, in fact, let me correct that. &gt;&gt; them going to the Mag 8? It'll be a Mag &gt;&gt; them going to the Mag 8? It'll be a Mag 8. I'm saying something else, which is 8. I'm saying something else, which is that that unless something about their current unless something about their current trajectory trajectory changes, changes, Anthropic will be the most powerful Anthropic will be the most powerful monopoly ever created in human history. monopoly ever created in human history. Oh. Oh. Again, it will be, you know, a trillion Again, it will be, you know, a trillion dollars of ARR growing at some dollars of ARR growing at some exponential Interesting.

[00:16:34] exponential Interesting. &gt;&gt; Dario calls it AGI. I call it the &gt;&gt; Dario calls it AGI. I call it the biggest monopoly in human history. biggest monopoly in human history. Interesting to hear that word monopoly, Interesting to hear that word monopoly, Sacks. Very interesting placement. Sacks. Very interesting placement. Chamath, go ahead and then we'll move. Chamath, go ahead and then we'll move. &gt;&gt; Apple in 2025 was 420 billion. &gt;&gt; Apple in 2025 was 420 billion. Microsoft was 300 billion. Alphabet was Microsoft was 300 billion. Alphabet was 390 billion. Amazon 700 billion. Nvidia 390 billion. Amazon 700 billion. Nvidia 190 billion. Meta 185 billion. Tesla 110 190 billion. Meta 185 billion. Tesla 110 billion. Total billion. Total about 2.3 to 2.35 trillion. So, if Sacks about 2.3 to 2.35 trillion. So, if Sacks is right,

[00:17:04] is right, and Anthropic, and Anthropic, you know, can tack on a trillion, it you know, can tack on a trillion, it won't be the Mag 7, it'll be the Mag 1. won't be the Mag 7, it'll be the Mag 1. Just to put it in perspective though, Just to put it in perspective though, Dario and Dwarkesh said he thought the Dario and Dwarkesh said he thought the combined AI revenue combined AI revenue of the market leaders would be about a of the market leaders would be about a trillion in 2029. I love what you're trillion in 2029. I love what you're saying, Zach's. I think there is saying, Zach's. I think there is unlimited TAM. We may be over our skis a unlimited TAM. We may be over our skis a little bit in terms of, you know, the little bit in terms of, you know, the forecast. If you back your way from forecast. If you back your way from compute, right? They're They expect to compute, right? They're They expect to have 5 gigs by the end of this year, 10 have 5 gigs by the end of this year, 10 gigs by the end of next year. It's kind

[00:17:35] gigs by the end of next year. It's kind of hard to get to those numbers for a of hard to get to those numbers for a single company, but I do believe that single company, but I do believe that the, you know, trajectory that they're the, you know, trajectory that they're on, I totally agree with you, is on an on, I totally agree with you, is on an exponential that not many people exponential that not many people believed in 4 months ago. Right. So, believed in 4 months ago. Right. So, then the question is, okay, I think we then the question is, okay, I think we all agree they're on an exponential all agree they're on an exponential curve and that the TAM is big enough to curve and that the TAM is big enough to support that. Just one data point on support that. Just one data point on TAM. My understanding of the total TAM. My understanding of the total market size just on coding market size just on coding is 1 trillion, meaning that a trillion is 1 trillion, meaning that a trillion dollars a year, roughly, is spent on dollars a year, roughly, is spent on software developers and all things

[00:18:06] software developers and all things related to the creation of software. related to the creation of software. Now, I'm not saying that they eat that Now, I'm not saying that they eat that entire market, but I can easily see the entire market, but I can easily see the market for software doubling. market for software doubling. &gt;&gt; Well, hold on. doubling from a trillion &gt;&gt; Well, hold on. doubling from a trillion to 2 trillion, given that to 2 trillion, given that coding tokens basically 10 X's or 100 coding tokens basically 10 X's or 100 X's the value of that market and the X's the value of that market and the ability to generate code. So, I think we ability to generate code. So, I think we all agree that the TAM here is large all agree that the TAM here is large enough to support a trillion dollars of enough to support a trillion dollars of revenue. Brad, I think you bring up a revenue. Brad, I think you bring up a couple of really important constraints. couple of really important constraints. First, there may not be enough compute

[00:18:36] First, there may not be enough compute and there's not enough energy. I'd say and there's not enough energy. I'd say the second big one is, what's the the second big one is, what's the competitive reaction going to be? competitive reaction going to be? Totally. Because I would say at the Totally. Because I would say at the beginning of this year, all these beginning of this year, all these frontier labs were playing around with a frontier labs were playing around with a lot of different things. I mean, lot of different things. I mean, Anthropic was the porcupine. They Anthropic was the porcupine. They believed in one thing. All these other believed in one thing. All these other companies were kind of acting like the companies were kind of acting like the fox who thinks they're good at a lot of fox who thinks they're good at a lot of different things. They were doing nano different things. They were doing nano banana, they were doing Sora, they were banana, they were doing Sora, they were doing, you know, they were doing image doing, you know, they were doing image generation, they were doing fantasy generation, they were doing fantasy character chatbots. In hindsight, they character chatbots. In hindsight, they were doing a lot of things that appeared were doing a lot of things that appeared to be kind of a waste of time. The whole

[00:19:09] to be kind of a waste of time. The whole market appears now to be coding and the market appears now to be coding and the things that we built on coding tokens things that we built on coding tokens like co-work, like agents. And so there like co-work, like agents. And so there is going to be a competitive response is going to be a competitive response here where all the other guys realize, here where all the other guys realize, "Oh, wait a second. We were misfocused." "Oh, wait a second. We were misfocused." They're going to get focused. I just They're going to get focused. I just don't know how much share they're going don't know how much share they're going to be able to take. It does look like to be able to take. It does look like OpenAI has already made the pivot. We OpenAI has already made the pivot. We hear very good things about Codex now hear very good things about Codex now based on GPT 5.5. 5.5 is based on a new based on GPT 5.5. 5.5 is based on a new base model called Spud. I think they're base model called Spud. I think they're very optimistic about continuing very optimistic about continuing improvements. Their rate of growth

[00:19:40] improvements. Their rate of growth appears to be accelerating now because appears to be accelerating now because of 5.5. of 5.5. So, look, there's reason to believe that So, look, there's reason to believe that OpenAI can take some share here. I'm OpenAI can take some share here. I'm sure that Google won't be asleep at the sure that Google won't be asleep at the wheel. They're very, very good at wheel. They're very, very good at coding. They've got a really good team. coding. They've got a really good team. And Elon just tied up with Cursor. So, And Elon just tied up with Cursor. So, there is going to be more competition. there is going to be more competition. But still, what you have to say, But still, what you have to say, and I think all of us know this from and I think all of us know this from Silicon Valley, is you always want to be Silicon Valley, is you always want to be the company in the lead that's on that the company in the lead that's on that trajectory where all you have to do is trajectory where all you have to do is maintain inertia, whereas the other

[00:20:11] maintain inertia, whereas the other people have to change something in order people have to change something in order to put themselves back in the race. So, to put themselves back in the race. So, this is when when I say somewhat sort of this is when when I say somewhat sort of facetiously, "Congratulations, Dario, on facetiously, "Congratulations, Dario, on winning the AI race." I don't mean that winning the AI race." I don't mean that he's won it, but he is winning it right he's won it, but he is winning it right now. Well, here's the the brilliance of now. Well, here's the the brilliance of what Elon's doing. If you look at the what Elon's doing. If you look at the existing business, which is Starlink and existing business, which is Starlink and basically the launch services at SpaceX, basically the launch services at SpaceX, incredible business, obviously. incredible business, obviously. 20 billion this year, I think is the 20 billion this year, I think is the estimate. But if you look at the estimate. But if you look at the footprint of Amazon Web Services, Azure,

[00:20:41] footprint of Amazon Web Services, Azure, and GCP, you're looking at, you know, and GCP, you're looking at, you know, 300 billion dollars in revenue 300 billion dollars in revenue and a market cap of combined 5 trillion, and a market cap of combined 5 trillion, 4 trillion if these were independent 4 trillion if these were independent companies. And if you look at what is companies. And if you look at what is Elon's core competency at Tesla, it's Elon's core competency at Tesla, it's building factories. And if you look at building factories. And if you look at the footprint of these factories, the footprint of these factories, they're huge. What are data centers? they're huge. What are data centers? They're basically big giant factories. They're basically big giant factories. And then if you look at energy, what And then if you look at energy, what else is Elon extremely good at? This is

[00:21:12] else is Elon extremely good at? This is the battery deployment and he's also got the battery deployment and he's also got solar deployment from the SolarCity solar deployment from the SolarCity often criticized acquisition he did often criticized acquisition he did years ago. So you put this all together, years ago. So you put this all together, if this is 5 billion as I think you if this is 5 billion as I think you referenced Brad, if it's $5 billion in referenced Brad, if it's $5 billion in incremental incremental Elon web services business and he's a Elon web services business and he's a neo cloud, what could he build on planet neo cloud, what could he build on planet Earth, what could he build inside of Earth, what could he build inside of Tesla's in terms of extra compute, what Tesla's in terms of extra compute, what could he build inside the power wall? could he build inside the power wall? What if the power walls had his new fabs What if the power walls had his new fabs in them and you built a distributed in them and you built a distributed system from home to home? The power wall

[00:21:45] system from home to home? The power wall has compute in it, the cars have compute has compute in it, the cars have compute in it and of course in it and of course the ultimate manifestation of this where the ultimate manifestation of this where nobody can complain is you go right out nobody can complain is you go right out into space. And that's what he's going into space. And that's what he's going to do and the the sneaky small part of to do and the the sneaky small part of this announcement from Elon and from this announcement from Elon and from Anthropic and Dario was they're also Anthropic and Dario was they're also interested in space. So look for the interested in space. So look for the race to go from factories and data race to go from factories and data centers to homes, the power wall with centers to homes, the power wall with compute in it. It's already online, compute in it. It's already online, right? And Starlink also gives him the

[00:22:16] right? And Starlink also gives him the ability to do distributed compute to ability to do distributed compute to people's homes. Again, you could be people's homes. Again, you could be paying people to put power walls with paying people to put power walls with computer in it. That's going to be the computer in it. That's going to be the next shoe to drop, I believe. Did you next shoe to drop, I believe. Did you guys see the deal that was announced guys see the deal that was announced yesterday yesterday between Pulte Homes, which is a huge between Pulte Homes, which is a huge builder, builder, &gt;&gt; Yes. They're doing it as well. &gt;&gt; Yes. They're doing it as well. &gt;&gt; and Span? Yes. Nick, just throw this up &gt;&gt; and Span? Yes. Nick, just throw this up here. It's super cool. What's happening here. It's super cool. What's happening is that these guys is that these guys are putting are putting many data centers with Nvidia GPU many data centers with Nvidia GPU clusters clusters beside every home and then allowing beside every home and then allowing people to actually run those things and

[00:22:47] people to actually run those things and that's just incredible. I thought that that's just incredible. I thought that was so cool. It's a great pivot. What was so cool. It's a great pivot. What this company did originally Chamath was this company did originally Chamath was they did the power panel. They made they did the power panel. They made smart power panels. So you know when you smart power panels. So you know when you flip your breakers, all those breakers flip your breakers, all those breakers are in an app. I looked at it for my are in an app. I looked at it for my house, but I guess they pivoted to add house, but I guess they pivoted to add this and I think Base Power Brad urine this and I think Base Power Brad urine industrial unit they're going to do the industrial unit they're going to do the same thing. same thing. &gt;&gt; Yep, Zach Dell's doing that. One of the &gt;&gt; Yep, Zach Dell's doing that. One of the things I just would say in response, things I just would say in response, Jason, to what you just said about Elon, Jason, to what you just said about Elon, right? This is why the SpaceX IPO is right? This is why the SpaceX IPO is going to trade at 40 to 50 times going to trade at 40 to 50 times revenue, okay? So, next year, if they do

[00:23:18] revenue, okay? So, next year, if they do 40 to 50 billion, and this thing goes 40 to 50 billion, and this thing goes out at 2 trillion, right? That they're out at 2 trillion, right? That they're going to trade at a really high revenue going to trade at a really high revenue multiple compared to the Mag 5 that are multiple compared to the Mag 5 that are trading at like 25 times earnings. And trading at like 25 times earnings. And there's only one person on the planet there's only one person on the planet who has a future pipeline of innovation who has a future pipeline of innovation and the largest TAM in the world because and the largest TAM in the world because he's playing in all these different he's playing in all these different spaces that can command that multiple, spaces that can command that multiple, and it's Elon, and it's deserved, and and it's Elon, and it's deserved, and it's great for the country. it's great for the country. &gt;&gt; same Teslas has that same Elon &gt;&gt; same Teslas has that same Elon variable in it as well, which is people

[00:23:51] variable in it as well, which is people value his companies at I would say two value his companies at I would say two times market, three times market, four times market, three times market, four times market because of the future times market because of the future pipeline. You guys And they devalue pipeline. You guys And they devalue Apple because they don't have somebody Apple because they don't have somebody like Elon or Steve Jobs there who is like Elon or Steve Jobs there who is giving them the future. giving them the future. &gt;&gt; I don't think it's devalued. I think Or &gt;&gt; I don't think it's devalued. I think Or properly valued if you don't have an properly valued if you don't have an Elon and you have somebody like I think Elon and you have somebody like I think that's exactly what it is. We talked that's exactly what it is. We talked about this last week, but explain why about this last week, but explain why you think it's different. you think it's different. &gt;&gt; all of these companies are actually very &gt;&gt; all of these companies are actually very fairly valued, and then fairly valued, and then Elon world gets a premium. Totally. And Elon world gets a premium. Totally. And that premium is because of what you guys

[00:24:21] that premium is because of what you guys said. That I agree with. The big message said. That I agree with. The big message that I take away from this, which the that I take away from this, which the markets markets and retail are telling you is and retail are telling you is you guys have stopped innovating. you guys have stopped innovating. There's a lot of incrementalism, There's a lot of incrementalism, and we as a society aren't benefiting and we as a society aren't benefiting broadly the way that you told us we broadly the way that you told us we would be. would be. And so, maybe this is the best way for And so, maybe this is the best way for them to get this message, which is to them to get this message, which is to whack their valuation. And by the way, whack their valuation. And by the way, I'll just say it again, when Tesla and I'll just say it again, when Tesla and SpaceX merge and we have all things Elon

[00:24:51] SpaceX merge and we have all things Elon in Elon Corp, okay, which will happen in Elon Corp, okay, which will happen probably by at end of the year, maybe probably by at end of the year, maybe it'll happen in the middle of next year. it'll happen in the middle of next year. It's going to then break everybody's It's going to then break everybody's brains again because you'll have this brains again because you'll have this one asset, as you guys said, that will one asset, as you guys said, that will trade at a valuation premium. And some trade at a valuation premium. And some people will say it's unexplainable. And people will say it's unexplainable. And I think it's logically explainable, I think it's logically explainable, which is everybody else has stopped which is everybody else has stopped innovating. People know how to draw more innovating. People know how to draw more blood from the stone, how to target blood from the stone, how to target better ads. better ads. That does nothing for society anymore.

[00:25:23] That does nothing for society anymore. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's it. Literally In fact, it &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's it. Literally In fact, it does the opposite. It There is no good does the opposite. It There is no good left. left. &gt;&gt; That was literally the exact point I was &gt;&gt; That was literally the exact point I was making when you cut me off. If you look, making when you cut me off. If you look, Tim Cook's greatest innovation Tim Cook's greatest innovation Tim Cook's greatest innovation, before Tim Cook's greatest innovation, before you cut me off, was Apple TV. Not even you cut me off, was Apple TV. Not even the hardware product. It was just the hardware product. It was just spending money and making a Netflix spending money and making a Netflix knockoff. There's been no other product knockoff. There's been no other product Hold on. Let me finish again before you Hold on. Let me finish again before you interrupt me making my point. interrupt me making my point. &gt;&gt; that? You don't like being interrupted? &gt;&gt; that? You don't like being interrupted? Oh, no. Oh, yeah. Well, okay. Okay. Oh, no. Oh, yeah. Well, okay. Okay. &gt;&gt; Go back to your interesting Pot, meet &gt;&gt; Go back to your interesting Pot, meet kettle. kettle. If you look at their track record, and I

[00:25:54] If you look at their track record, and I think this is why we had a change there think this is why we had a change there is they have not done anything is they have not done anything innovative. And in fact, the things they innovative. And in fact, the things they were doing that were innovating in AI or were doing that were innovating in AI or self-driving cars, they shut down. They self-driving cars, they shut down. They won't take any swing for the bat. So, won't take any swing for the bat. So, they are getting penalized in their they are getting penalized in their valuation. valuation. &gt;&gt; They're just not getting a premium. &gt;&gt; They're just not getting a premium. They're not getting penalized. They're not getting penalized. &gt;&gt; I think they're getting penalized. &gt;&gt; I think they're getting penalized. &gt;&gt; metric, they're trading at incredible &gt;&gt; metric, they're trading at incredible valuations. Just look at them. Oh, no. I valuations. Just look at them. Oh, no. I don't I I mean, if you compare the two don't I I mean, if you compare the two valuations, I think they're being valuations, I think they're being penalized. Anyway, let's Anybody else penalized. Anyway, let's Anybody else want to get in on this before we move on want to get in on this before we move on to the next one? Yeah. There is no world

[00:26:26] to the next one? Yeah. There is no world in which Google and Meta and Apple and in which Google and Meta and Apple and Amazon could be viewed as being Amazon could be viewed as being penalized in valuation. There is very penalized in valuation. There is very clearly a world where Elon gets a clearly a world where Elon gets a massive premium because he's innovating. massive premium because he's innovating. You're saying the same thing. You're You're saying the same thing. You're saying the same thing. saying the same thing. &gt;&gt; we're not the same thing. It's not the &gt;&gt; we're not the same thing. It's not the same thing. same thing. &gt;&gt; listen. We're I think we're we're &gt;&gt; listen. We're I think we're we're debating semantics here. I'm not letting debating semantics here. I'm not letting you off the hook, Saxby poo. you off the hook, Saxby poo. When Sax is very deliberate in how he When Sax is very deliberate in how he speaks, they said he's the captain of speaks, they said he's the captain of the debate club in his 20,000 word

[00:26:56] the debate club in his 20,000 word article this week and that he's a master article this week and that he's a master debater. He's a masturbator. And debater. He's a masturbator. And you slipped in you slipped it in. you slipped in you slipped it in. Are you saying that the FTC or whoever Are you saying that the FTC or whoever should be going in and looking at should be going in and looking at Anthropic? Oh, Brad's book is getting Anthropic? Oh, Brad's book is getting attacked headwinds. You said they're a attacked headwinds. You said they're a monopoly or they're heading to monopoly monopoly or they're heading to monopoly tactics Sacks is are that what you're tactics Sacks is are that what you're saying? saying? Well, look, I mean we know that tech Well, look, I mean we know that tech markets have a history of consolidating markets have a history of consolidating down and turning into either monopolies

[00:27:27] down and turning into either monopolies or duopolies. And if you just look at or duopolies. And if you just look at the revenue right now, there's only two the revenue right now, there's only two companies making substantial revenue on companies making substantial revenue on AI. It's Anthropic and Open AI. We know AI. It's Anthropic and Open AI. We know that Open AI is growing at three to four that Open AI is growing at three to four X, which is incredible at the level of X, which is incredible at the level of scale they're at. Anthropic though we scale they're at. Anthropic though we said is growing at an exponential 10X a said is growing at an exponential 10X a year. And if they just do that for 18 year. And if they just do that for 18 more months, they'll be by far the most more months, they'll be by far the most valuable company in human history and valuable company in human history and they'll have unprecedented control over they'll have unprecedented control over the most important technology of our the most important technology of our time. So, I don't know what you call

[00:27:59] time. So, I don't know what you call that, that, but it is something to think about. And but it is something to think about. And I guess I do have a thought experiment I guess I do have a thought experiment for you guys, for you guys, which is which is I just want you to think for a second I just want you to think for a second about the case of of John D. about the case of of John D. Rockefeller, who I think is known as Rockefeller, who I think is known as probably probably the most successful greatest monopolist the most successful greatest monopolist in American history. But he wasn't very in American history. But he wasn't very good at PR. good at PR. He was terrible at PR. Everyone sort of He was terrible at PR. Everyone sort of recognized how ruthless he is. We see recognized how ruthless he is. We see movies like There Will Be Blood, which movies like There Will Be Blood, which is basically about him. In any event,

[00:28:30] is basically about him. In any event, imagine if John D. Rockefeller was way imagine if John D. Rockefeller was way better at public relations. And instead better at public relations. And instead of calling his company Standard Oil, he of calling his company Standard Oil, he called it Safe Oil. Okay, let's just called it Safe Oil. Okay, let's just let's just play this thought experiment. let's just play this thought experiment. &gt;&gt; Clean beautiful coal, yes. Safe oil. He &gt;&gt; Clean beautiful coal, yes. Safe oil. He called it Safe Oil because as we know called it Safe Oil because as we know kerosene is dangerous. Their first big kerosene is dangerous. Their first big product was kerosene. And kerosene can product was kerosene. And kerosene can light your house or it can burn it down. light your house or it can burn it down. And in the wrong hands, it can torch a And in the wrong hands, it can torch a city or you can use it to make a bomb. city or you can use it to make a bomb. So, John D

[00:29:01] So, John D let's say should have called for the let's say should have called for the creation of a new government agency to creation of a new government agency to regulate the safety of his product. And regulate the safety of his product. And they could have done rigorous testing, they could have done rigorous testing, licensing, common sense regulation. licensing, common sense regulation. There would have been a very intense There would have been a very intense debate over safety standards. debate over safety standards. You know, what should the proper wick You know, what should the proper wick thickness be? And should we allow all thickness be? And should we allow all those those dangerous independent refiners, right? dangerous independent refiners, right? And I think people would have gotten so And I think people would have gotten so wrapped up in this debate over what wrapped up in this debate over what constituted safe oil or safe kerosene constituted safe oil or safe kerosene that they would have missed what was

[00:29:31] that they would have missed what was really going on, which is that really going on, which is that Rockefeller was building the richest, Rockefeller was building the richest, most powerful monopoly of all time. In most powerful monopoly of all time. In fact, people might even have called fact, people might even have called Rockefeller an effective altruist Rockefeller an effective altruist because of course he was so concerned because of course he was so concerned about the safety about the safety of his product. of his product. &gt;&gt; it. Shout out to David Sacks and &gt;&gt; it. Shout out to David Sacks and writers. Great, great, great [laughter] writers. Great, great, great [laughter] writers. writers. &gt;&gt; writers. Newman? Newman wrote this? No, &gt;&gt; writers. Newman? Newman wrote this? No, I wrote it. I wrote it. &gt;&gt; Well, Emmy award for best writing in a &gt;&gt; Well, Emmy award for best writing in a dramatic monologue goes to Newman. Wow, dramatic monologue goes to Newman. Wow, Sacks. Sacks. &gt;&gt; No, that's my writing. &gt;&gt; No, that's my writing. &gt;&gt; You landed it. Very good, Sacks. I

[00:30:01] &gt;&gt; You landed it. Very good, Sacks. I thought after the Elon Anthropic detente thought after the Elon Anthropic detente where Elon said, you know, complimented where Elon said, you know, complimented Anthropic that and David started off Anthropic that and David started off with a bit of a compliment. I thought we with a bit of a compliment. I thought we maybe were past this. First, it's maybe were past this. First, it's ridiculous to think of this as a ridiculous to think of this as a monopoly. monopoly. You know, we're talking about annual run You know, we're talking about annual run rate revenues, David, but on a GAAP rate revenues, David, but on a GAAP basis, they're doing about the same basis, they're doing about the same revenue as OpenAI in the month of March. revenue as OpenAI in the month of March. Okay? So, we're way ahead of ourselves. Okay? So, we're way ahead of ourselves. By the way, 5 months ago, everybody By the way, 5 months ago, everybody thought OpenAI was going to run away thought OpenAI was going to run away with this. Google's revenues are very with this. Google's revenues are very substantial in AI. And by the way,

[00:30:32] substantial in AI. And by the way, Google, Amazon, etc., these companies Google, Amazon, etc., these companies are producing a hundred billion dollars are producing a hundred billion dollars of free cash flow to justify their of free cash flow to justify their incremental investment. At the same incremental investment. At the same time, you have these two startups that time, you have these two startups that are still fledgling, that are still are still fledgling, that are still fragile in the scheme of things, fragile in the scheme of things, you of all people should know we've got you of all people should know we've got the best competition in AI on the the best competition in AI on the planet, which is why we're at the planet, which is why we're at the frontier and kicking the tail of frontier and kicking the tail of everybody else on the planet. So, I just everybody else on the planet. So, I just want to see these companies compete. I want to see these companies compete. I want to see DC stay out of the way. The want to see DC stay out of the way. The last thing I want to be doing is is is, last thing I want to be doing is is is, you know, seeing people talk about this

[00:31:04] you know, seeing people talk about this and throwing roadblocks into the way of and throwing roadblocks into the way of the competition. the competition. &gt;&gt; Um I think Anthropic is &gt;&gt; Um I think Anthropic is &gt;&gt; Well, let me let me hold on. Let me &gt;&gt; Well, let me let me hold on. Let me &gt;&gt; translate Brad for you. Don't with &gt;&gt; translate Brad for you. Don't with my paper is what he's saying. He's my paper is what he's saying. He's [laughter] got bets on these. So, Sax, [laughter] got bets on these. So, Sax, Washington, DC, don't with Brad's Washington, DC, don't with Brad's paper. Sax, uh you want to get into the paper. Sax, uh you want to get into the uh regulation stuff right now as a segue uh regulation stuff right now as a segue or Let me respond to Brad and also or Let me respond to Brad and also translate what I'm saying satirically, translate what I'm saying satirically, okay? Satirically. First of all, nobody okay? Satirically. First of all, nobody wants to see these companies compete wants to see these companies compete vigorously more than me. That was the

[00:31:36] vigorously more than me. That was the whole premise whole premise of the action plan that we worked on of the action plan that we worked on last year is we want to bring out the last year is we want to bring out the best in everyone. This is how America's best in everyone. This is how America's going to win the AI race. We have five going to win the AI race. We have five major labs vigorously competing. major labs vigorously competing. And as long as that competition is And as long as that competition is taking place, that I think that's a good taking place, that I think that's a good thing. Doesn't mean we can't have thing. Doesn't mean we can't have guardrails and the rest of it, but guardrails and the rest of it, but basically competition should be our basically competition should be our North Star. North Star. All of that being said, okay, what I am All of that being said, okay, what I am pointing out and I I think it's pointing out and I I think it's historically true historically true that people in Washington have woken up that people in Washington have woken up to monopolies

[00:32:07] to monopolies on the late side, not early, right? on the late side, not early, right? Because I mean, once a company has won Because I mean, once a company has won 80% of the market, that's when they wake 80% of the market, that's when they wake up and say, "Oh, we have a monopoly up and say, "Oh, we have a monopoly here." here." And I'm not saying that they have a And I'm not saying that they have a monopoly yet, but if the trajectory monopoly yet, but if the trajectory continues for just 18 more months, continues for just 18 more months, then I think it will be in this then I think it will be in this unpresently powerful position. unpresently powerful position. &gt;&gt; I mean I mean And and hold on. And I &gt;&gt; I mean I mean And and hold on. And I don't think people should be distracted don't think people should be distracted from that fact from that fact by this rhetoric around safety because by this rhetoric around safety because someone like Rockefeller could have used

[00:32:38] someone like Rockefeller could have used it, too. it, too. And I do think let me just like one one And I do think let me just like one one last point on this. I do think that if last point on this. I do think that if you actually look you actually look at what a lot of the the safetyist at what a lot of the the safetyist policies are calling for, policies are calling for, they're basically calling for a form of they're basically calling for a form of regulatory capture. And they're calling regulatory capture. And they're calling for things that would create a stronger for things that would create a stronger moat around this monopoly or duopoly moat around this monopoly or duopoly that's in the process of being created that's in the process of being created and it would get in the way of and it would get in the way of competition. So again, I think that competition. So again, I think that people people might not have such a terrible view

[00:33:08] might not have such a terrible view of all of this safety rhetoric if they of all of this safety rhetoric if they understood understood that what was being created here is the that what was being created here is the biggest monopoly in human history. biggest monopoly in human history. And I think we should just be a little And I think we should just be a little bit more skeptical about some of these bit more skeptical about some of these altruistic claims. I can't believe that altruistic claims. I can't believe that David is like you know, talking David is like you know, talking monopolies when we haven't even left the monopolies when we haven't even left the starting gate starting gate of AI. I I I I think this is a uh of AI. I I I I think this is a uh to me There's only two companies with to me There's only two companies with revenue. revenue. &gt;&gt; thing I want is DC trying to

[00:33:38] &gt;&gt; thing I want is DC trying to preemptively preemptively, which would preemptively preemptively, which would be like a disastrous consequence, get in be like a disastrous consequence, get in the game of picking winners and losers the game of picking winners and losers at the starting line of AI. That would at the starting line of AI. That would be a disaster. Brad, did you just put be a disaster. Brad, did you just put another soapbox on top of the soapbox another soapbox on top of the soapbox you were standing on? you were standing on? &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Look, Brad. Like I said, my North Star &gt;&gt; Look, Brad. Like I said, my North Star is competition. As long as there's is competition. As long as there's competition going on, I support it. competition going on, I support it. Hold on. Hold on. We know that Hold on. Hold on. We know that monopolists want to stop competition. monopolists want to stop competition. And they use regulatory capture to do And they use regulatory capture to do it. And furthermore, they do things like

[00:34:09] it. And furthermore, they do things like ban their competitors from using their ban their competitors from using their product. What conceivable reason product. What conceivable reason did Anthropic have for banning OpenClaw did Anthropic have for banning OpenClaw using its models? That is using its models? That is anti-competitive. Is it not? I I I would anti-competitive. Is it not? I I I would double click on it. I would double click double click on it. I would double click on it. I might not, you know, file, but on it. I might not, you know, file, but I would double click. Okay, listen. I would double click. Okay, listen. Chamath, the girls are fighting. Let's Chamath, the girls are fighting. Let's keep moving through the docket. We're keep moving through the docket. We're going to be here all day with these two going to be here all day with these two and one thing that you're going to need and one thing that you're going to need to act on very quickly is the All-In to act on very quickly is the All-In Summit. It's selling out fast. Don't Summit. It's selling out fast. Don't miss it. Speakers are top tier again.

[00:34:40] miss it. Speakers are top tier again. Freeberg busy working on Freeberg busy working on some amazing speakers. Sachs will be some amazing speakers. Sachs will be there. He's flying in and out every day there. He's flying in and out every day for 4 hours and then for 4 hours and then &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; we're &gt;&gt; we're we're going to have a lot of networking we're going to have a lot of networking stuff going down. We're building some stuff going down. We're building some networking software. So, when you come networking software. So, when you come to our events, you get to meet people. to our events, you get to meet people. That's what we always say. My playbook That's what we always say. My playbook for events, if you learn something from for events, if you learn something from the speakers every day, one or two the speakers every day, one or two things, if you meet somebody new and you things, if you meet somebody new and you eat some great food and have some fun, eat some great food and have some fun, you get two or three of those things, you get two or three of those things, man, even if you get one, you're going man, even if you get one, you're going to come back to the event. You're going to come back to the event. You're going to get all three all day long.

[00:35:10] to get all three all day long. allin.com/events Los Angeles September allin.com/events Los Angeles September 13th, 14th, and 15th. Apologies to 13th, 14th, and 15th. Apologies to everybody asking, but liquidity is sold everybody asking, but liquidity is sold out and we've shut down the waitlist. out and we've shut down the waitlist. There's just no more room. All right, There's just no more room. All right, the White House allegedly, possibly is the White House allegedly, possibly is considering, according to reports, considering, according to reports, an FDA for AI. That would vet You heard an FDA for AI. That would vet You heard that correct, folks. That would vet new that correct, folks. That would vet new models for safety. The thing we've been models for safety. The thing we've been talking about not doing here. The thing talking about not doing here. The thing David Sachs has spent the last year on. David Sachs has spent the last year on. The White House is considering. New York

[00:35:41] The White House is considering. New York Times reported Trump is considering an Times reported Trump is considering an executive order to create an quote AI executive order to create an quote AI working group. This group would include working group. This group would include tech execs and government officials who tech execs and government officials who would quote examine potential oversight would quote examine potential oversight procedures procedures including quote a review process for new including quote a review process for new AI models. Oy. According to the report, AI models. Oy. According to the report, the catalyst was wait for it, the catalyst was wait for it, Anthropic's Methuselah model, which Anthropic's Methuselah model, which reportedly scared, spooked, made people reportedly scared, spooked, made people really nervous at the White House. really nervous at the White House. Quote, the White House wants to avoid

[00:36:12] Quote, the White House wants to avoid any political repercussions if a any political repercussions if a devastating AI-enabled cyberattack were devastating AI-enabled cyberattack were to occur. They want to see YAA, to occur. They want to see YAA, according to the New York Times. Kevin according to the New York Times. Kevin Hassett, that guy, the director of the Hassett, that guy, the director of the National Economic Council confirmed the National Economic Council confirmed the report on Fox Business. Here's your report on Fox Business. Here's your 15-second clip. 15-second clip. &gt;&gt; We're studying possibly an executive &gt;&gt; We're studying possibly an executive order to give a clear road map to order to give a clear road map to everybody about how this is going to go everybody about how this is going to go and how future AIs that also potentially and how future AIs that also potentially create vulnerabilities should go through create vulnerabilities should go through a process so that you know, they're

[00:36:42] a process so that you know, they're released to the wild after they've been released to the wild after they've been proven safe just like an FDA drug. proven safe just like an FDA drug. Additionally, Additionally, friend of the pod, friend of the pod, Scott Bessent, had something to say. Scott Bessent, had something to say. &gt;&gt; had in the past month was a step change &gt;&gt; had in the past month was a step change in the power of one large language in the power of one large language model, but we're going to see it from model, but we're going to see it from the other AI companies. What we are the other AI companies. What we are determined to do is work with our AI determined to do is work with our AI companies to allow them to continue companies to allow them to continue innovate, but our charge of the US innovate, but our charge of the US government is maintaining safety and government is maintaining safety and there there is a very important calculus

[00:37:14] there there is a very important calculus here between innovation and safety and here between innovation and safety and at the the US government, we're going to at the the US government, we're going to make sure that things stay safe. There make sure that things stay safe. There you go. Kevin Hassett and you go. Kevin Hassett and Bessent Bessent slightly different positions here, Brad. slightly different positions here, Brad. What do you think? Actually, I don't What do you think? Actually, I don't think they're slightly different think they're slightly different positions, but I I I would agree that positions, but I I I would agree that Kevin bringing up the FDA kind of Kevin bringing up the FDA kind of muddied the waters. I talked to Kevin muddied the waters. I talked to Kevin last night after that clip ran. last night after that clip ran. You know, and I asked him. I I just You know, and I asked him. I I just said, do you think FDA is the right said, do you think FDA is the right analog here? And he said, you know, I analog here? And he said, you know, I was I was only bringing it up to say

[00:37:44] was I was only bringing it up to say that they we want them to show us the that they we want them to show us the models so that we can coordinate them. models so that we can coordinate them. Obviously, our job is to make sure that Obviously, our job is to make sure that the government is prepared, that we the government is prepared, that we harden our systems, that our harden our systems, that our intelligence agencies are up to speed, intelligence agencies are up to speed, but he does not think and I can't find but he does not think and I can't find anybody anybody on the right on the right you know, that believes that we're going you know, that believes that we're going to move to an approval regime, right? to move to an approval regime, right? The approval regime, this idea that The approval regime, this idea that you're going to have to share every you're going to have to share every model with an FDA in Washington and model with an FDA in Washington and they're going to have to pre-approve the they're going to have to pre-approve the model is a disaster. Sachs has been model is a disaster. Sachs has been effectively fighting against this

[00:38:16] effectively fighting against this correctly over the course of the last correctly over the course of the last year. It would just it would lead to year. It would just it would lead to three bad things. Number one, we do not three bad things. Number one, we do not want to put the Washington in in the want to put the Washington in in the position of picking winners and losers position of picking winners and losers when it comes to these models. We're when it comes to these models. We're winning. We're on the winning horse in winning. We're on the winning horse in America. We're out in front of the rest America. We're out in front of the rest of the world. There's no reason to of the world. There's no reason to change horses and regimes at this point. change horses and regimes at this point. And we don't want to burden this with And we don't want to burden this with more democracy. But at the same time, more democracy. But at the same time, obviously, I call these pre-AGI or AGI obviously, I call these pre-AGI or AGI models, Mistral, Spud, etc. I see a lot models, Mistral, Spud, etc. I see a lot of coordination going on between the

[00:38:46] of coordination going on between the industry and government. I think we can industry and government. I think we can do an even better job of a evolving that do an even better job of a evolving that framework so that everybody in framework so that everybody in government is on the same page. We need government is on the same page. We need to build more capacity in government to to build more capacity in government to quickly be able to do the cyber review quickly be able to do the cyber review on these models. Right now, it takes too on these models. Right now, it takes too long when the coordination does occur. long when the coordination does occur. So, we need to have a finite amount of So, we need to have a finite amount of time that they give government feedback, time that they give government feedback, etc. etc. But the last thing that we want is an But the last thing that we want is an FDA of models sitting in Washington. FDA of models sitting in Washington. Kevin understands that. Scott Bessen Kevin understands that. Scott Bessen understands that. So, I expect that we

[00:39:16] understands that. So, I expect that we will continue down the path that we've will continue down the path that we've been on. Chamath, obviously, I think we been on. Chamath, obviously, I think we all agree we don't need an FDA for AI, all agree we don't need an FDA for AI, but but there are things that a reasonably there are things that a reasonably people would want to have guardrails people would want to have guardrails around AI. I'm sure you would agree. It around AI. I'm sure you would agree. It shouldn't be a total free-for-all. So, shouldn't be a total free-for-all. So, what's your take on this? Is it just what's your take on this? Is it just somebody gave a bad analogy here? Or somebody gave a bad analogy here? Or maybe some people were weaseling their maybe some people were weaseling their way into the White House to try to shift way into the White House to try to shift things when Sachs was back at home or things when Sachs was back at home or something? What what's going on here? something? What what's going on here? Give us the uh Cuz that's what I That's

[00:39:48] Give us the uh Cuz that's what I That's what people say. They say the last what people say. They say the last person to talk to Trump kind of has his person to talk to Trump kind of has his ear and that things can bend a certain ear and that things can bend a certain way. way. I don't think it's that. I think that I don't think it's that. I think that there's a pretty profound vibe shift there's a pretty profound vibe shift with respect to tech tech oligarchs, with respect to tech tech oligarchs, Silicon Valley, and particularly the AI. Silicon Valley, and particularly the AI. That vibe shift has already happened on That vibe shift has already happened on Main Street. Main Street. And I think that that's starting to seep And I think that that's starting to seep into Washington. I think that into Washington. I think that regulations are coming. regulations are coming. I think they'll be worse under a I think they'll be worse under a democratic regime,

[00:40:19] democratic regime, but I think that some form of oversight but I think that some form of oversight is going to exist under a Republican is going to exist under a Republican regime. regime. The question that I think is worth The question that I think is worth asking is why. asking is why. And if you listen to everybody's tone, And if you listen to everybody's tone, it's all around the negatives of AI. it's all around the negatives of AI. So, I think we suffer from two things. So, I think we suffer from two things. Number one is we have horrible Number one is we have horrible messaging. messaging. Nobody spends the time Nobody spends the time and the money to articulate the positive and the money to articulate the positive upside case upside case so that there's broad-based support. And

[00:40:50] so that there's broad-based support. And two, two, the idea that there's going to be a the idea that there's going to be a Sachs said earlier, Sachs said earlier, a few winners and many, many, many a few winners and many, many, many potential losers, potential losers, I think is really disconcerting to I think is really disconcerting to everybody. everybody. And the response from the tech And the response from the tech community, community, again, should be the leadership of the again, should be the leadership of the tech world tech world coming together coming together and actually reinvesting in America writ and actually reinvesting in America writ large. They're not doing that in enough large. They're not doing that in enough of a scale that blunts this. So, what of a scale that blunts this. So, what you're seeing is the build-up of you're seeing is the build-up of antibodies.

[00:41:20] antibodies. Is it avoidable? Yes. Is it avoidable? Yes. Are we doing a good job of avoiding it? Are we doing a good job of avoiding it? Absolutely not. We're doing a horrible Absolutely not. We're doing a horrible job. I'd give the community, the tech job. I'd give the community, the tech leaders, a D- minus leaders, a D- minus trending to an F. trending to an F. The response is what we're seeing. So, I The response is what we're seeing. So, I think the question, Jason, isn't think the question, Jason, isn't regulation, no regulation, it's why did regulation, no regulation, it's why did we get here? we get here? And I think we got here because the And I think we got here because the other version, the glass half full other version, the glass half full version, the demonstrated investment, version, the demonstrated investment, the broad-based uplifting of American the broad-based uplifting of American society hasn't happened. And if it has,

[00:41:53] society hasn't happened. And if it has, it's been very poorly communicated. And it's been very poorly communicated. And so, the response is, so, the response is, "Hey, hold on. We're going to give three "Hey, hold on. We're going to give three guys trillion-dollar net worths, and guys trillion-dollar net worths, and we're going to allow them to control the we're going to allow them to control the keys?" keys?" That's why this is happening. That's why this is happening. &gt;&gt; Exactly correct. And it's very easy, &gt;&gt; Exactly correct. And it's very easy, Sachs, to imagine all the bad things Sachs, to imagine all the bad things that That happen. Our minds are that That happen. Our minds are constructed to do that. We're vigilant. constructed to do that. We're vigilant. We look out for the tiger or, you know, We look out for the tiger or, you know, the tornado to keep ourselves safe. the tornado to keep ourselves safe. Humans have a bias towards safety, and Humans have a bias towards safety, and they're going to think about, you know, they're going to think about, you know, deep fakes. They're going to think about

[00:42:24] deep fakes. They're going to think about robotics. They're going to think about robotics. They're going to think about self-driving cars taking people's jobs. self-driving cars taking people's jobs. They're going to think about, you know, They're going to think about, you know, all the dark things that could happen. all the dark things that could happen. Bio weapons, etc. And we don't have Bio weapons, etc. And we don't have anybody out there really talking about anybody out there really talking about all the positives that could happen. all the positives that could happen. What's your take on What's your take on the palace intrigue we all have here? the palace intrigue we all have here? What's going on in the palace, in the What's going on in the palace, in the 47th administration, around this debate? 47th administration, around this debate? Who's leading Trump down the path of Who's leading Trump down the path of regulation and creating this AI FDA? We

[00:42:54] regulation and creating this AI FDA? We know you're part of the camp that wants know you're part of the camp that wants to keep this train moving and not to keep this train moving and not overregulated, not have regulatory overregulated, not have regulatory capture. Who are the people trying to capture. Who are the people trying to slow this down? slow this down? Well, look, I I think there's several Well, look, I I think there's several things going on here. The first one is things going on here. The first one is there's a lot of fake news. This whole there's a lot of fake news. This whole idea of an FDA for AI, I don't think any idea of an FDA for AI, I don't think any senior official supports it, just like senior official supports it, just like Brad was saying. Brad was saying. I spoke to Hassabis well. That's not I spoke to Hassabis well. That's not where his head is at. So, I don't think where his head is at. So, I don't think anybody in the administration is saying anybody in the administration is saying they want an FDA for AI. Certainly, I they want an FDA for AI. Certainly, I don't think that's the way the president

[00:43:25] don't think that's the way the president thinks about these issues. He's the most thinks about these issues. He's the most pro-innovation president we've ever had. pro-innovation president we've ever had. And the White House Chief of Staff, And the White House Chief of Staff, Susie Wells, just put out a statement Susie Wells, just put out a statement last night that I think pretty much last night that I think pretty much shoots this down. So, I think there's a shoots this down. So, I think there's a big fake news component. Remember, it big fake news component. Remember, it was not really the White House who was was not really the White House who was saying it was the New York Times. Mhm. saying it was the New York Times. Mhm. &gt;&gt; And really, I think actually Andrew Ross &gt;&gt; And really, I think actually Andrew Ross Sorkin, Sorkin, now I'm not criticizing him, but he's a now I'm not criticizing him, but he's a commentator, and he's the one who said commentator, and he's the one who said this first, and then somehow that spin this first, and then somehow that spin or that gloss or that gloss somehow took on a life of its own. And I somehow took on a life of its own. And I think

[00:43:55] think Silicon Valley reacted accordingly. Silicon Valley reacted accordingly. There's a very visceral negative There's a very visceral negative reaction here, because we know how reaction here, because we know how damaging that would be to innovation. damaging that would be to innovation. But, look, I think the good news is that But, look, I think the good news is that that was fake news. Second, that was fake news. Second, I think that there's another thing going I think that there's another thing going on, which is a straw manning of what on, which is a straw manning of what the Trump administration did on AI in the Trump administration did on AI in its first year. its first year. And in the same way that they want to And in the same way that they want to spin this FDA for AI, they're also spin this FDA for AI, they're also trying to spin what we did as this trying to spin what we did as this completely laissez-faire attitude where

[00:44:25] completely laissez-faire attitude where there'd be no regulations whatsoever, no there'd be no regulations whatsoever, no guardrails. It's a way of criticizing guardrails. It's a way of criticizing what we did. They're trying to portray what we did. They're trying to portray it as unsafe. In fact, if you look on it as unsafe. In fact, if you look on March 20th, White House released March 20th, White House released a national AI regulatory framework that a national AI regulatory framework that I worked on, in which we put out a I worked on, in which we put out a four-page bulleted list of legislation four-page bulleted list of legislation that we would support if Congress wants that we would support if Congress wants to pass it. So, we have not been against to pass it. So, we have not been against every conceivable regulation or every every conceivable regulation or every conceivable law. We just believe that conceivable law. We just believe that there should be specific solutions to

[00:44:57] there should be specific solutions to specific problems, as opposed to a giant specific problems, as opposed to a giant power grab by Washington that would power grab by Washington that would squash innovation. So, I think that's squash innovation. So, I think that's point number two. point number two. Point number three is there is a Point number three is there is a legitimate thing happening here with legitimate thing happening here with let's call it Mythos or cyber. Okay, we let's call it Mythos or cyber. Okay, we know that it's not just Mythos. know that it's not just Mythos. OpenAI now has a model that's just as OpenAI now has a model that's just as cyber capable as Mythos, and within 3 to cyber capable as Mythos, and within 3 to 6 months all the major frontier labs, 6 months all the major frontier labs, and including Chinese models, will have and including Chinese models, will have cyber capabilities.

[00:45:28] cyber capabilities. In response to that, we do need there to In response to that, we do need there to be a hardening of systems, and we do be a hardening of systems, and we do need there to be a scanning of codebases need there to be a scanning of codebases to find these vulnerabilities and patch to find these vulnerabilities and patch them before the hackers do it, because them before the hackers do it, because the hackers will have these capabilities the hackers will have these capabilities in a matter of months. That's a in a matter of months. That's a certainty, because the same capabilities certainty, because the same capabilities you use for cyber defense can also be you use for cyber defense can also be used for cyber offense. It's the same used for cyber offense. It's the same tool set. And the open source models tool set. And the open source models will have these capabilities anyway. will have these capabilities anyway. &gt;&gt; have it to a certain extent, let's be &gt;&gt; have it to a certain extent, let's be honest. They have 80% of it, 90% of it.

[00:46:00] honest. They have 80% of it, 90% of it. &gt;&gt; it's simply the case that AI will be &gt;&gt; it's simply the case that AI will be good at cyber, and so we do need a good at cyber, and so we do need a response to that. Now, my view on what response to that. Now, my view on what should that response be should be first should that response be should be first of all, we should want the government of all, we should want the government and the private sector to work and the private sector to work cooperatively, and I think they are. We cooperatively, and I think they are. We have a giant cybersecurity industry in have a giant cybersecurity industry in the United States whose sole job it is the United States whose sole job it is to protect systems and protect against to protect systems and protect against breaches We have the best companies in breaches We have the best companies in the world at doing that. We have the world at doing that. We have CrowdStrike, we have Palo Alto Networks,

[00:46:31] CrowdStrike, we have Palo Alto Networks, we talked about that before. We have the we talked about that before. We have the best defense. Right, exactly. And so best defense. Right, exactly. And so what we should be doing, I think, is what we should be doing, I think, is getting these tools Methos and then the getting these tools Methos and then the Open AI model and and others like it in Open AI model and and others like it in the hands of our cybersecurity industry. the hands of our cybersecurity industry. And by the way, not just the public And by the way, not just the public companies like Palo Alto Networks and companies like Palo Alto Networks and CrowdStrike, all those certainly. CrowdStrike, all those certainly. They're two of the most noteworthy, but They're two of the most noteworthy, but there's also some incredibly strong there's also some incredibly strong startups on the way out startups on the way out &gt;&gt; a long tail of hundreds &gt;&gt; a long tail of hundreds &gt;&gt; that are at the cutting edge of doing &gt;&gt; that are at the cutting edge of doing AI-powered pen testing and all the rest AI-powered pen testing and all the rest of it. We need to get these tools into

[00:47:02] of it. We need to get these tools into their hands as quickly as possible their hands as quickly as possible because they're a force multiplier for because they're a force multiplier for all the companies out there that aren't all the companies out there that aren't that good at cybersecurity or maybe that good at cybersecurity or maybe they've got IT departments, they can use they've got IT departments, they can use these companies as vendors. So, I think these companies as vendors. So, I think that there is a role for us to play. that there is a role for us to play. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Do you think that the models &gt;&gt; Yeah. Do you think that the models should should have a KYC wrapper going forward? KYC have a KYC wrapper going forward? KYC for the audience is know your customer. for the audience is know your customer. Yeah. So, what really what it would mean Yeah. So, what really what it would mean is that before you can use is that before you can use Methos, you have to identify yourself so Methos, you have to identify yourself so that we can try to know that you're not

[00:47:33] that we can try to know that you're not a a state-sponsored actor or, you know, a state-sponsored actor or, you know, a bad guy. I think that's the type of bad guy. I think that's the type of thing that we should be thinking about. thing that we should be thinking about. So, first of all, I want to say that So, first of all, I want to say that both Anthropic and Open AI acted both Anthropic and Open AI acted responsibly here. No one was trying to responsibly here. No one was trying to release these super powerful models. So, release these super powerful models. So, in a way, all the people who are saying in a way, all the people who are saying that we need pre-release approvals for that we need pre-release approvals for models, they're trying to solve a models, they're trying to solve a problem that didn't exist. Anthropic problem that didn't exist. Anthropic wasn't wasn't Yeah, they probably wasn't trying to Yeah, they probably wasn't trying to release this. Open AI wasn't trying to release this. Open AI wasn't trying to release this. They all understood the release this. They all understood the power and they were all acting power and they were all acting responsibly. They understood the

[00:48:03] responsibly. They understood the ramifications, because they would have ramifications, because they would have been sued. So, they there is a been sued. So, they there is a self-policing going on here, which is self-policing going on here, which is the ultimate way to do this. Yes. And the ultimate way to do this. Yes. And but to your point, Chamath, yeah, look, but to your point, Chamath, yeah, look, I think that before giving your API for I think that before giving your API for a super powerful model, you should not a super powerful model, you should not give that to a company or an actor you give that to a company or an actor you don't know who they are. So, yeah, some don't know who they are. So, yeah, some basic KYC makes sense. They should know basic KYC makes sense. They should know who they're giving these tools to. And I who they're giving these tools to. And I guess my view on the Mythos preview and guess my view on the Mythos preview and whatever the equivalent is of what Open whatever the equivalent is of what Open AI is doing AI is doing is that we very rapidly need to get is that we very rapidly need to get these tools into the hands of more good

[00:48:35] these tools into the hands of more good guys. You need to know who those good guys. You need to know who those good guys are. You need to know who they are. guys are. You need to know who they are. So, yeah, KYC is like a predicate for So, yeah, KYC is like a predicate for that, right? You got to know who they that, right? You got to know who they are. are. &gt;&gt; clear, we'd all agree that if you did &gt;&gt; clear, we'd all agree that if you did have identity for those frontier models, have identity for those frontier models, which they're probably doing anyway which they're probably doing anyway right now, and you logged what people right now, and you logged what people were doing with them to look for were doing with them to look for security breaches, that wouldn't security breaches, that wouldn't necessarily happen when you released it necessarily happen when you released it to the public because of privacy issues. to the public because of privacy issues. Here's your Polymarket Here's your Polymarket for Trump ordering a federal review of for Trump ordering a federal review of AI models by May 31st, 21% chance. I

[00:49:06] AI models by May 31st, 21% chance. I think think to our partner at Polymarket, man, I I to our partner at Polymarket, man, I I got to get in here. I don't Do I have got to get in here. I don't Do I have inside information here being inside information here being the world's greatest moderator on this the world's greatest moderator on this podcast or I can Can I collect this podcast or I can Can I collect this money, Chamath? What am I going to do money, Chamath? What am I going to do here? here? &gt;&gt; I would not Do not Do not place a bet, &gt;&gt; I would not Do not Do not place a bet, J. Cole. Don't place a bet? Don't place J. Cole. Don't place a bet? Don't place a bet. But a bet. But to Chamath's point, I mean, look, I to Chamath's point, I mean, look, I think we're kind of work shopping this think we're kind of work shopping this in real time. We are. Which is good. in real time. We are. Which is good. &gt;&gt; I think that for the preview period, we &gt;&gt; I think that for the preview period, we should definitely have KYC. Maybe should definitely have KYC. Maybe &gt;&gt; logging? What about logging? &gt;&gt; logging? What about logging? &gt;&gt; Well, look, once you're past the preview &gt;&gt; Well, look, once you're past the preview period and it's in general release,

[00:49:37] period and it's in general release, I'm not sure if the KYC matters as much I'm not sure if the KYC matters as much because so many people are going to have because so many people are going to have it. But during the preview period, there it. But during the preview period, there should be KYC. Let me let me just say should be KYC. Let me let me just say one thing. All the labs are already one thing. All the labs are already tracking API use, okay? And anything tracking API use, okay? And anything suspicious, because they they're they're suspicious, because they they're they're there are there are anti-distillation efforts going on by anti-distillation efforts going on by all the labs. There's a ton of all the labs. There's a ton of coordination going on with the coordination going on with the government. There's way more happening, government. There's way more happening, I think, in terms of our API and API I think, in terms of our API and API use. Um and anything suspicious is being use. Um and anything suspicious is being flagged flagged and being shared with the government. and being shared with the government. So, the idea that we have no idea who's

[00:50:09] So, the idea that we have no idea who's doing it, I think, is not the case. And doing it, I think, is not the case. And in fact, in some cases, we may want to in fact, in some cases, we may want to allow people to use it so that we can allow people to use it so that we can see exactly the types of things that see exactly the types of things that they are extracting. So, I would just I they are extracting. So, I would just I would say we're already down that path, would say we're already down that path, but better coordination but better coordination may may may, in fact, be called for. may may may, in fact, be called for. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And just one last point in this &gt;&gt; Yeah. And just one last point in this whole thing is I just want to build on whole thing is I just want to build on my point that pre-release approvals are my point that pre-release approvals are solving a problem that didn't really solving a problem that didn't really exist because, again, Anthropic and exist because, again, Anthropic and OpenAI weren't trying to release these OpenAI weren't trying to release these models yet is that there is a models yet is that there is a substantial faction of, let's say, AI

[00:50:42] substantial faction of, let's say, AI ideologues or doomers who ideologues or doomers who are basically employing the classic are basically employing the classic never let a crisis go to waste strategy, never let a crisis go to waste strategy, right? That yes, we do have this cyber right? That yes, we do have this cyber issue that is real. You know, everyone issue that is real. You know, everyone needs to harden their systems now. needs to harden their systems now. Totally. Over the next 3 to 6 months. Totally. Over the next 3 to 6 months. That is a real issue. That is a real issue. But that is a problem that we will solve But that is a problem that we will solve over the next 6 months. We have to. But over the next 6 months. We have to. But what they're trying to do is use that what they're trying to do is use that issue to try and create a permanent new issue to try and create a permanent new infrastructure in Washington. Again, I infrastructure in Washington. Again, I don't think the That's not the

[00:51:12] don't think the That's not the administration's intention. That's not administration's intention. That's not the administration's agenda. But you saw the administration's agenda. But you saw a lot of people a lot of people on social media, a lot of the think on social media, a lot of the think tanks, and even Bernie Sanders weighed tanks, and even Bernie Sanders weighed in. And he said, "For the first time, I in. And he said, "For the first time, I like something that the Trump like something that the Trump administration wants to do." administration wants to do." &gt;&gt; The administration understands the 1% of &gt;&gt; The administration understands the 1% of the 1% tax, and everybody understand the 1% tax, and everybody understand that this is out of control. The AI is that this is out of control. The AI is going to take the jobs. They're going to going to take the jobs. They're going to take my summer home. It's going to be take my summer home. It's going to be terrible. terrible. So, there are people who have this So, there are people who have this agenda. Look, Bernie Sanders just wants agenda. Look, Bernie Sanders just wants to stop the progress. I mean, he's Of to stop the progress. I mean, he's Of course, I do. He wants to ban data

[00:51:43] course, I do. He wants to ban data centers. He's put out a bunch of things. centers. He's put out a bunch of things. &gt;&gt; He He basically has bought into the &gt;&gt; He He basically has bought into the whole doomer narrative. So, look, that's whole doomer narrative. So, look, that's why he likes the FDA why he likes the FDA idea is because it would put the kibosh idea is because it would put the kibosh on innovation. on innovation. &gt;&gt; already. Let's give Let's have a go back &gt;&gt; already. Let's give Let's have a go back to paper and pen. It was a better to paper and pen. It was a better society, Sachs. Jason, what do you society, Sachs. Jason, what do you think? I think there's two really think? I think there's two really interesting things I want to build on interesting things I want to build on here. The first is your point, Chamath, here. The first is your point, Chamath, around how do we turn around the sort of around how do we turn around the sort of bad vibes around AI. I think we have to bad vibes around AI. I think we have to have two strategies here. One is giving

[00:52:16] have two strategies here. One is giving what you've been working on, Brad, with what you've been working on, Brad, with your project. We should see more people your project. We should see more people giving. There's no reason why Nvidia, giving. There's no reason why Nvidia, SpaceX when they go public, SpaceX when they go public, Anthropic when they go public, OpenAI if Anthropic when they go public, OpenAI if and when they go public or if they and when they go public or if they become stay as nonprofit, there's no become stay as nonprofit, there's no reason those folks in an IPO couldn't reason those folks in an IPO couldn't give a portion of the IPO to every give a portion of the IPO to every American citizen. So, IPOK, IPO for American citizen. So, IPOK, IPO for kids, they all take, you know, whatever kids, they all take, you know, whatever it is, 5%, 1%, whatever they choose, and it is, 5%, 1%, whatever they choose, and they put it into the Invest America they put it into the Invest America accounts. And we should see some major

[00:52:47] accounts. And we should see some major giving from the people who are becoming giving from the people who are becoming trillionaires, hundred billionaires, trillionaires, hundred billionaires, whatever it happens to be. There's no whatever it happens to be. There's no reason not to. But those people haven't reason not to. But those people haven't been doing that. We had this giving been doing that. We had this giving pledge, which was a little bit of virtue pledge, which was a little bit of virtue signaling, and it wasn't real. It was signaling, and it wasn't real. It was just, you know, at the end of your life just, you know, at the end of your life you promised to give away half your you promised to give away half your money. So, let's have something real. money. So, let's have something real. Let's have something where, you know, Let's have something where, you know, people say I'm going to give away 1% of people say I'm going to give away 1% of my stock over the next 20 years of my my stock over the next 20 years of my life. Every year 1% will go into Invest life. Every year 1% will go into Invest America, whatever it is. It won't cost America, whatever it is. It won't cost anybody anything. You can't spend this anybody anything. You can't spend this money, whether it's Bezos or whatever. money, whether it's Bezos or whatever. Second,

[00:53:18] Second, and that same thing in terms of giving and that same thing in terms of giving back, we have not talked about how back, we have not talked about how massive this could be for health and massive this could be for health and extending people's life and reducing extending people's life and reducing suffering. We need to work on that. suffering. We need to work on that. That's where contributions to basic That's where contributions to basic science could come in, and obviously science could come in, and obviously education and lowering the cost of education and lowering the cost of education. And if you look at what education. And if you look at what Americans on the bottom have, you were Americans on the bottom have, you were talking about the, you know, cup half talking about the, you know, cup half empty. There's really two or three empty. There's really two or three things they really feel anxiety about. things they really feel anxiety about. One of it is income, and the second is One of it is income, and the second is healthcare, healthcare, and on the margins, housing and their

[00:53:49] and on the margins, housing and their kids, you know, their kids' education kids, you know, their kids' education and the cost of those things. and the cost of those things. We should really take a look deeply at, We should really take a look deeply at, and I know this is very unpopular and I know this is very unpopular amongst capitalists, including myself, amongst capitalists, including myself, we should really look at the minimum we should really look at the minimum wage and study what happened in New wage and study what happened in New Zealand, Sweden, Switzerland, Zealand, Sweden, Switzerland, Australia when they raised it. What Australia when they raised it. What actually happened when they raised it actually happened when they raised it and there was a lot of hand-wringing and there was a lot of hand-wringing about it, but when they slowly raised it about it, but when they slowly raised it what they found was those consumers what they found was those consumers don't save money, they spend it. They're don't save money, they spend it. They're always behind the eight ball in terms of always behind the eight ball in terms of their spending. We should opt in to their spending. We should opt in to trying to raise the minimum wage company

[00:54:20] trying to raise the minimum wage company by company by company, and just give by company by company, and just give people who are at the end of the people who are at the end of the spectrum that understanding that, "Hey, spectrum that understanding that, "Hey, year over year, whether it's Amazon or year over year, whether it's Amazon or Target, etc., restaurants, we're all Target, etc., restaurants, we're all collectively going to add a little bit collectively going to add a little bit to that minimum wage and try to lift the to that minimum wage and try to lift the bottom third of society." That's the bottom third of society." That's the stuff we're not talking about. We don't stuff we're not talking about. We don't talk about it here on this podcast, we talk about it here on this podcast, we don't talk about universal healthcare, don't talk about universal healthcare, we don't talk about the minimum wage, we don't talk about the minimum wage, but that's what capitalists should be but that's what capitalists should be talking about. And if we did that, if we talking about. And if we did that, if we increased the minimum wage, and I'm not increased the minimum wage, and I'm not a socialist, I'm a capitalist who thinks

[00:54:51] a socialist, I'm a capitalist who thinks this is good for capitalism, if we this is good for capitalism, if we increased the minimum wage just modestly increased the minimum wage just modestly each year, each year, and we opted into doing that, and we and we opted into doing that, and we figured out a way to give universal figured out a way to give universal healthcare, companies wouldn't have to healthcare, companies wouldn't have to deal with universal healthcare, and we deal with universal healthcare, and we would have customers, and we're a would have customers, and we're a customer-driven economy. Like 60, 70, customer-driven economy. Like 60, 70, 80% of what happens in this country is 80% of what happens in this country is driven by the consumer. We need consumer driven by the consumer. We need consumer spending. It's great for companies if we spending. It's great for companies if we had more people being able to buy had more people being able to buy Netflix or order on Amazon. Anyway, Netflix or order on Amazon. Anyway, that's my that's my TED Talk. Thanks for that's my that's my TED Talk. Thanks for coming. How do we get from AI to the

[00:55:21] coming. How do we get from AI to the minimum wage? I'm still a little bit minimum wage? I'm still a little bit confused about it. confused about it. &gt;&gt; eye. No, the black eye we have in this &gt;&gt; eye. No, the black eye we have in this country with polarization of wealth and country with polarization of wealth and people scared of losing their jobs. We people scared of losing their jobs. We we should look at why are they scared, we should look at why are they scared, David? And I've talked to you privately David? And I've talked to you privately and you said to to privately, you can and you said to to privately, you can strike this if you want, But, you said strike this if you want, But, you said to me privately, you wouldn't be against to me privately, you wouldn't be against necessarily figuring out a way to you necessarily figuring out a way to you know do universal health care if there know do universal health care if there was a way to do it. You want to see was a way to do it. You want to see every human have health care, yes? every human have health care, yes? Sure. I mean, the issue is not the Sure. I mean, the issue is not the desirability of it, it's the cost. I

[00:55:52] desirability of it, it's the cost. I mean mean &gt;&gt; So, you're the real entrepreneur of our &gt;&gt; So, you're the real entrepreneur of our time. How would you do it? Have you time. How would you do it? Have you given any cycle to it? given any cycle to it? &gt;&gt; I haven't studied that issue, so I don't &gt;&gt; I haven't studied that issue, so I don't know. I just know that know. I just know that countries countries I remember what P.J. O'Rourke once said, I remember what P.J. O'Rourke once said, which is if you think health care is which is if you think health care is expensive now, just wait until you make expensive now, just wait until you make it free. it free. Yeah. [laughter] And Yeah. [laughter] And uh so, you take away all the incentives uh so, you take away all the incentives and you have a even bigger problem. and you have a even bigger problem. Well, what do you think minimum wage? Well, what do you think minimum wage? Yeah, go ahead. Well, let me just Can we Yeah, go ahead. Well, let me just Can we just get back to AI? Listen, you guys just get back to AI? Listen, you guys are right about the unpopularity of AI. are right about the unpopularity of AI. We've all seen those polls, but I want

[00:56:22] We've all seen those polls, but I want to just put up this additional poll that to just put up this additional poll that came out about the salience of this came out about the salience of this issue, which is how important do people issue, which is how important do people think it is. think it is. And AI ranked 29 out of 39. So, although And AI ranked 29 out of 39. So, although AI is not very popular, it is certainly AI is not very popular, it is certainly not top of mind for voters. It's not in not top of mind for voters. It's not in the top 10 issues. It's not in the top the top 10 issues. It's not in the top 20 issues. What is top of mind for 20 issues. What is top of mind for voters? Number one, cost of living. voters? Number one, cost of living. Number two, the economy. And we know Number two, the economy. And we know that AI is deflationary. It helps with that AI is deflationary. It helps with the cost of living and it's creating an

[00:56:53] the cost of living and it's creating an economic boom right now, okay? It's 75% economic boom right now, okay? It's 75% of GDP growth in Q1. By the way, that of GDP growth in Q1. By the way, that that economic growth is not just limited that economic growth is not just limited to startups in Silicon Valley. We're to startups in Silicon Valley. We're seeing a construction boom. We're seeing seeing a construction boom. We're seeing a blue collar boom. We're seeing 25 to a blue collar boom. We're seeing 25 to 30% wage increases for uh construction 30% wage increases for uh construction workers. workers. &gt;&gt; Exactly. &gt;&gt; Exactly. And so on down the line. So, And so on down the line. So, &gt;&gt; And Brad, if you if you look at that &gt;&gt; And Brad, if you if you look at that chart, there's health care in there, chart, there's health care in there, too. So, look, my point is that AI may too. So, look, my point is that AI may not be popular, but the effects of it not be popular, but the effects of it actually are popular if the media would actually are popular if the media would honestly report what was happening,

[00:57:24] honestly report what was happening, which is AI is creating an economic boom which is AI is creating an economic boom right now. It couldn't be better said, right now. It couldn't be better said, David. You know, Bernie Sanders calling David. You know, Bernie Sanders calling for a moratorium, shutting down all data for a moratorium, shutting down all data data centers? We'd have negative GDP data centers? We'd have negative GDP growth this year. The stock market would growth this year. The stock market would be down 15 to 20%. Unemployment would be be down 15 to 20%. Unemployment would be on the rise. You know, there is a on the rise. You know, there is a consequence to the government consequence to the government controlling through command and control controlling through command and control the economy. In 1929, we had 4% the economy. In 1929, we had 4% unemployment. 3 years later, it was unemployment. 3 years later, it was unemployment was 23% unemployment was 23% because government got involved in because government got involved in regulating everything and shutting down,

[00:57:56] regulating everything and shutting down, you know, what was working. That is the you know, what was working. That is the greatest threat we have here. AI is greatest threat we have here. AI is delivering huge net benefits today in delivering huge net benefits today in terms of unemployment rate, in terms of terms of unemployment rate, in terms of economic growth and productivity growth. economic growth and productivity growth. We need to tell the story. But, to We need to tell the story. But, to Chamath's earlier point, we also need to Chamath's earlier point, we also need to deliver net benefits. Jason, thanks for deliver net benefits. Jason, thanks for the shout-out. Yes, every American the shout-out. Yes, every American having an investment account that having an investment account that compounds with the upside of AI, we're compounds with the upside of AI, we're going to do that. Going to deliver that, going to do that. Going to deliver that, and that's going to be massive. But, I and that's going to be massive. But, I also think ideas like, if we're going to also think ideas like, if we're going to put a data center in Abilene, Texas, put a data center in Abilene, Texas, let's make electricity in Abilene free

[00:58:27] let's make electricity in Abilene free for the households in Abilene, Texas, for the households in Abilene, Texas, right? There are ideas that can deliver right? There are ideas that can deliver net benefits. We got to deliver those. I net benefits. We got to deliver those. I think we're Optimism will be on the think we're Optimism will be on the march. I think we're in the trough right march. I think we're in the trough right now. now. &gt;&gt; take on minimum wage and universal &gt;&gt; take on minimum wage and universal health care, Brad? How do you think health care, Brad? How do you think about it as a capitalist, as an about it as a capitalist, as an innovator, and in the face of AI, which innovator, and in the face of AI, which could have a dramatic impact on these could have a dramatic impact on these issues? issues? You know, like Zach's, I I you know, to You know, like Zach's, I I you know, to me, I haven't spent a ton of time me, I haven't spent a ton of time thinking about those except that as a thinking about those except that as a society, we're $38 trillion in debt. We society, we're $38 trillion in debt. We haven't been able to afford to deliver

[00:58:57] haven't been able to afford to deliver those things. I generally think the those things. I generally think the market works out those market works out those issues better than the government issues better than the government top-down trying to, you know, the top-down trying to, you know, the government gets more and more involved government gets more and more involved in health care, and the only thing that in health care, and the only thing that happens it gets more expensive. So, happens it gets more expensive. So, we've all seen the charts of the most we've all seen the charts of the most expensive categories where we've had expensive categories where we've had inflation, education, health care, etc. inflation, education, health care, etc. It's where the government's involved. I It's where the government's involved. I actually think if you just let the actually think if you just let the markets work, we're entering in into an markets work, we're entering in into an age of abundance. A lot of these age of abundance. A lot of these problems are going to be solved. People problems are going to be solved. People are going to have a lot of AI coaches in are going to have a lot of AI coaches in health care and education, etc. Let the health care and education, etc. Let the market work. Government stay at bay,

[00:59:28] market work. Government stay at bay, keep things safe. We're on a good march. keep things safe. We're on a good march. I think this I think this proves my point perfectly. If you talk proves my point perfectly. If you talk to any founder, they're not thinking to any founder, they're not thinking about housing, they're not thinking about housing, they're not thinking about higher education costs, they're about higher education costs, they're not thinking about minimum wage, you not thinking about minimum wage, you know, and they're not thinking about know, and they're not thinking about healthcare all that often. Some Some do healthcare all that often. Some Some do though. There's some innovation there. though. There's some innovation there. And it's because it's so regulated that And it's because it's so regulated that entrepreneurs and VCs are just like, entrepreneurs and VCs are just like, "That's Kryptonite. The government has "That's Kryptonite. The government has poisoned the well. We can't participate poisoned the well. We can't participate in that." And that's the roadblock. And in that." And that's the roadblock. And that's where Americans are suffering. that's where Americans are suffering. And that's where it would be great if And that's where it would be great if founders actually put their minds to it.

[00:59:59] founders actually put their minds to it. And the government's got to get rid of And the government's got to get rid of all that regulation and let us cook in all that regulation and let us cook in those specific verticals. All right, the those specific verticals. All right, the market is in hyperdrive. Hyperscaler market is in hyperdrive. Hyperscaler revenue has made the markets move up. We revenue has made the markets move up. We hit on this briefly, but we didn't have hit on this briefly, but we didn't have you here. Fifth best EB G cloud you here. Fifth best EB G cloud computing on a tear. I referenced it computing on a tear. I referenced it earlier, but AWS is now on a $150 earlier, but AWS is now on a $150 billion run rate. Azure 108 billion, GCP billion run rate. Azure 108 billion, GCP Google Cloud 80 billion. There's a Google Cloud 80 billion. There's a little bit of fun with numbers there, little bit of fun with numbers there, Chris. Azure and Microsoft include some

[01:00:30] Chris. Azure and Microsoft include some of their software products in there. And of their software products in there. And Google Cloud includes things like Google Google Cloud includes things like Google Office or Google Suite in there. Office or Google Suite in there. But the growth numbers are tremendous. But the growth numbers are tremendous. AWS, which is the more pure play of the AWS, which is the more pure play of the three, 28% growth on a very big number. three, 28% growth on a very big number. Azure 39%. Google Cloud stunning Azure 39%. Google Cloud stunning everybody with 63% everybody with 63% growth. It is incredible what the ARR growth. It is incredible what the ARR numbers are. Google Cloud added 10, AWS numbers are. Google Cloud added 10, AWS 10, Azure 9.5. So basically 30 billion 10, Azure 9.5. So basically 30 billion collectively. Jamin Ball, who works for collectively. Jamin Ball, who works for you, I think put out some data on the

[01:01:02] you, I think put out some data on the Twitter. Twitter. Brad, markets at all times high all time Brad, markets at all times high all time highs. highs. Mag 7 cooking. Mag 7 cooking. Uber blowing out growth, Disney blowing Uber blowing out growth, Disney blowing out growth. The consumer seems absurdly out growth. The consumer seems absurdly strong based on those two bellwethers. strong based on those two bellwethers. Tech seems extremely strong based on the Tech seems extremely strong based on the cloud computing. What's your take on the cloud computing. What's your take on the overall market and overall economy? overall market and overall economy? Obviously, inflation up a bit, people Obviously, inflation up a bit, people hand-wringing about the never-ending war hand-wringing about the never-ending war and the cost of oil. Let's just

[01:01:33] and the cost of oil. Let's just telescope way out. You know, the level telescope way out. You know, the level of criticism directed to this of criticism directed to this administration, right? Tariffs were administration, right? Tariffs were going to cause hyperinflation, we're going to cause hyperinflation, we're going to destroy GDP, going to destroy GDP, uh conflicts in Venezuela and Iran were uh conflicts in Venezuela and Iran were going to do the same. You know, we've going to do the same. You know, we've heard all of the negative stories, but heard all of the negative stories, but what's happening? Accelerating GDP. what's happening? Accelerating GDP. A tenure that's sitting at 4.3. A tenure that's sitting at 4.3. Inflation totally under control. AI, AI, Inflation totally under control. AI, AI, AI, compute, compute, compute. We're AI, compute, compute, compute. We're leading the world. It's contributing leading the world. It's contributing massively, right, to GDP growth in the

[01:02:05] massively, right, to GDP growth in the country. We see the S&amp;P only up 8% this country. We see the S&amp;P only up 8% this year, right? So, we're not in the bubble year, right? So, we're not in the bubble territory here. Meta's trading at 17 territory here. Meta's trading at 17 times fully taxed GAAP earnings, Nvidia times fully taxed GAAP earnings, Nvidia at 19 times, Microsoft at 20 times, at 19 times, Microsoft at 20 times, Google at 24 times. And then the memory Google at 24 times. And then the memory stocks that everybody's excited about, stocks that everybody's excited about, we have 25% of our portfolio in SK Hynix we have 25% of our portfolio in SK Hynix five times fully taxed GAAP earnings, five times fully taxed GAAP earnings, Samsung six times, Micron seven times, Samsung six times, Micron seven times, right? This is not the stuff that right? This is not the stuff that bubbles are made of. You know, David

[01:02:36] bubbles are made of. You know, David referenced it earlier. We started the referenced it earlier. We started the year Open AI and Anthropic were doing year Open AI and Anthropic were doing combined about 30 billion in revenue. combined about 30 billion in revenue. Now combined, four months later, 80 Now combined, four months later, 80 billion in revenue. The the policies of billion in revenue. The the policies of this administration on the economy are this administration on the economy are working. They're working in in spades. working. They're working in in spades. Our gap on the rest of the world in AI Our gap on the rest of the world in AI is growing. And so from from my is growing. And so from from my perspective, you know, uh you know, perspective, you know, uh you know, we've been all in on the market. I we've been all in on the market. I talked about it earlier in the year. talked about it earlier in the year. We're heavily tilted We're heavily tilted &gt;&gt; that switch to go all in on the market?

[01:03:07] &gt;&gt; that switch to go all in on the market? Cuz you were bearish. Cuz you were bearish. Uh I'd say toward the toward the end of Uh I'd say toward the toward the end of last year, the market had run up a lot. last year, the market had run up a lot. We had a lot of these questions. Listen, We had a lot of these questions. Listen, entering this year, there was a huge entering this year, there was a huge question hanging over the market. Would question hanging over the market. Would the AI revenue show up? the AI revenue show up? If the Anthropic revenues hadn't shown If the Anthropic revenues hadn't shown up and we didn't see this up and we didn't see this re-acceleration out of the hyperscalers, re-acceleration out of the hyperscalers, the market would be down 10 to 15% the market would be down 10 to 15% because people would say there's no ROI because people would say there's no ROI on all of this investment in on all of this investment in infrastructure. Exactly. When I saw the infrastructure. Exactly. When I saw the numbers start showing up in December and

[01:03:38] numbers start showing up in December and into January, we went from medium to into January, we went from medium to large in terms of our exposures and 80% large in terms of our exposures and 80% of our exposures or more have been in of our exposures or more have been in compute, AI, memory, etc. And this is compute, AI, memory, etc. And this is why it's great to operate in the private why it's great to operate in the private market and the public market because you market and the public market because you can see things in the private markets can see things in the private markets that inform the public markets. But, the that inform the public markets. But, the question remains, Brad, how much better question remains, Brad, how much better would the economy have been doing would the economy have been doing you know, as much credit as you're you know, as much credit as you're giving to the administration if they giving to the administration if they didn't start a $100 billion war that we didn't start a $100 billion war that we did not need to go into, according to

[01:04:08] did not need to go into, according to all reports, and if we didn't do a bunch all reports, and if we didn't do a bunch of tariffs that wound up being of tariffs that wound up being unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, unconstitutional by the Supreme Court, which Trump himself put in. We would which Trump himself put in. We would have been further ahead. That's uh my have been further ahead. That's uh my take on it. We would be ripping even take on it. We would be ripping even more if we didn't have those uh silly more if we didn't have those uh silly diversions. diversions. &gt;&gt; It's It's It's hard to imagine, okay? &gt;&gt; It's It's It's hard to imagine, okay? Just to set up again here. Just to set up again here. It's hard to imagine a more Goldilocks It's hard to imagine a more Goldilocks situation for the United States of situation for the United States of America. We have reset the table America. We have reset the table geopolitically. The discount rate geopolitically. The discount rate globally is actually coming down, not

[01:04:40] globally is actually coming down, not going up, evidenced by markets at going up, evidenced by markets at all-time high and the bond market in all-time high and the bond market in control. And then, look at the private control. And then, look at the private markets. We have multiple markets. We have multiple trillion-dollar companies that have been trillion-dollar companies that have been created in the private markets that are created in the private markets that are now coming public. SpaceX coming public now coming public. SpaceX coming public is going to be a multi-trillion dollar is going to be a multi-trillion dollar you know OpenAI, Anthropic, like at some you know OpenAI, Anthropic, like at some point you just have to acknowledge USA point you just have to acknowledge USA is winning. Of course, there are always is winning. Of course, there are always things that we could be doing better, things that we could be doing better, but there's not a country on the world but there's not a country on the world that wouldn't trade all of its fortune that wouldn't trade all of its fortune for the United States fortune today.

[01:05:11] for the United States fortune today. &gt;&gt; 100% in agreement. American &gt;&gt; 100% in agreement. American exceptionalism as embodied by the great exceptionalism as embodied by the great companies in America, SpaceX, Google, companies in America, SpaceX, Google, etc. All the ones we've been talking etc. All the ones we've been talking here. That is the story and I give here. That is the story and I give infinite credit to this administration infinite credit to this administration for being business-friendly. I do think for being business-friendly. I do think they've made two critical mistakes. I they've made two critical mistakes. I think the tariffs were poorly executed think the tariffs were poorly executed and I think we shouldn't have gone to and I think we shouldn't have gone to this war this war and we should find a quick resolution to and we should find a quick resolution to it which the administration seems to be it which the administration seems to be desperately doing. Sachs, your take on desperately doing. Sachs, your take on the economy. the economy. Well, look, we have an AI boom going on Well, look, we have an AI boom going on right now and I think that's thanks to right now and I think that's thanks to President Trump's policies. Remember,

[01:05:43] President Trump's policies. Remember, the first week he was in office, he the first week he was in office, he rescinded the Biden policies on chips rescinded the Biden policies on chips and models. And what were those and models. And what were those policies? It was the approval regime policies? It was the approval regime that we're talking about. Models would that we're talking about. Models would have to go to Washington to get approved have to go to Washington to get approved if they were trained with some number of if they were trained with some number of flops and then every sale of a GPU flops and then every sale of a GPU worldwide would have to be licensed from worldwide would have to be licensed from Washington unless it fit into some Washington unless it fit into some narrow exemptions. So, the whole narrow exemptions. So, the whole approach of the Biden administration approach of the Biden administration &gt;&gt; Exactly. that President Trump inherited &gt;&gt; Exactly. that President Trump inherited was everything approved in Washington.

[01:06:13] was everything approved in Washington. He rescinded that. He declared that we He rescinded that. He declared that we had to win the AI race and he unleashed had to win the AI race and he unleashed our companies to do that. Now, one other our companies to do that. Now, one other really important thing is energy. really important thing is energy. Remember, it was this president, going Remember, it was this president, going back a decade, who said, "Drill, baby, back a decade, who said, "Drill, baby, drill." He said, "We have to unleash drill." He said, "We have to unleash American energy. That's the basis for American energy. That's the basis for the American economy. It's also the the American economy. It's also the basis for AI." basis for AI." He also has said that he wanted to allow He also has said that he wanted to allow our AI companies to become energy our AI companies to become energy companies so they could bring their own companies so they could bring their own power to these data centers so they're power to these data centers so they're not drawing off the grid. They're not not drawing off the grid. They're not competing with consumers for

[01:06:43] competing with consumers for electricity. They're generating their electricity. They're generating their own power. And it's thanks to this own power. And it's thanks to this president that we have seen this president that we have seen this blue-collar construction boom right now blue-collar construction boom right now powering all of this infrastructure. powering all of this infrastructure. What would the alternative been? What would the alternative been? We know. I mean, Bernie Sanders has said We know. I mean, Bernie Sanders has said it. Would have been ban on data centers. it. Would have been ban on data centers. So, So, Yeah. Right now, we have taxes banning Yeah. Right now, we have taxes banning data centers. It's That would be a much data centers. It's That would be a much a much worse choice. Chamath, I'll give a much worse choice. Chamath, I'll give you the last word here as we wrap on the you the last word here as we wrap on the economy generally. I think the markets economy generally. I think the markets are going to keep going up for a while.

[01:07:15] are going to keep going up for a while. And then at some point they're going to And then at some point they're going to go down. go down. Okay, I wrote it down. Uh Chamath, you Okay, I wrote it down. Uh Chamath, you said markets are up and then eventually said markets are up and then eventually they're going to come down. they're going to come down. Those are the two things. Up and let me Those are the two things. Up and let me put a U here and then a D here. It's got put a U here and then a D here. It's got the I think you're doing a an impression the I think you're doing a an impression of the taking notes emoji. Is that what of the taking notes emoji. Is that what you're doing? Yes. Yeah, I just Okay, you're doing? Yes. Yeah, I just Okay, I'll shut down. I'll shut down. Wow. Thank you for tuning in to All-In Wow. Thank you for tuning in to All-In where you can get your great calls and where you can get your great calls and market action advice. It's going to go market action advice. It's going to go up and then down, folks. Act up and then down, folks. Act accordingly. Good. Chamath, in all

[01:07:46] accordingly. Good. Chamath, in all seriousness, but what what what makes seriousness, but what what what makes you bullish, you know, let's say in the you bullish, you know, let's say in the next 6 months, 12 months catalysts and next 6 months, 12 months catalysts and then what do you think the headwinds are then what do you think the headwinds are as well? Let's take the, you know, the as well? Let's take the, you know, the short to mid-term 6 months to 2 years. short to mid-term 6 months to 2 years. I think that in the short term I think that in the short term the people that the people that makes the new thing makes the new thing needs needs to get valued and needs to demonstrate to get valued and needs to demonstrate value. So, who are the people making the value. So, who are the people making the new thing? new thing? It's the Nvidias, it's the memory It's the Nvidias, it's the memory makers, it's the Anthropic's, it's the

[01:08:17] makers, it's the Anthropic's, it's the SpaceX's and uh it's the OpenAIs. But SpaceX's and uh it's the OpenAIs. But eventually it all comes home to roost. eventually it all comes home to roost. And And you can't just make things for a market you can't just make things for a market who then doesn't have a measurable who then doesn't have a measurable benefit themselves. benefit themselves. To be very clear and blunt, there is To be very clear and blunt, there is literally not a scintilla of evidence literally not a scintilla of evidence that AI has helped lift the operating that AI has helped lift the operating margins of the S&amp;P 500. margins of the S&amp;P 500. There's all kinds of bluster. There's There's all kinds of bluster. There's going to be a an important fork in the going to be a an important fork in the road. It's probably 2 or 3 years from

[01:08:47] road. It's probably 2 or 3 years from now. One path will be now. One path will be OpEx shrinks OpEx shrinks hence margins increase. hence margins increase. And the other path is revenues grow and And the other path is revenues grow and margins expand. And OpEx stays flat but margins expand. And OpEx stays flat but it or maybe it even goes up. it or maybe it even goes up. Those two things are very important Those two things are very important differences, because in the former differences, because in the former you're talking about shrinking workforce you're talking about shrinking workforce and shrinking off backs as a percentage and shrinking off backs as a percentage of operating margin and revenue. In the of operating margin and revenue. In the latter, you're actually growing through latter, you're actually growing through it. it. The answer to that question I think is The answer to that question I think is critical about how the markets will critical about how the markets will respond. respond. And how society will respond. So I think

[01:09:19] And how society will respond. So I think we have kind of call it 500 days we have kind of call it 500 days where where you just got to be net long. you just got to be net long. But I think it's literally in the But I think it's literally in the hundreds of days from now hundreds of days from now 500. 500. You're going to have to have an You're going to have to have an important reckoning moment. The people important reckoning moment. The people that are paying for all these tokens that are paying for all these tokens need to see it an actual benefit. Yeah, need to see it an actual benefit. Yeah, that that's reasonable. Yeah. That's a that that's reasonable. Yeah. That's a really interesting point. Let me connect really interesting point. Let me connect a couple of dots here between something a couple of dots here between something Chamath said and what Brad said, which Chamath said and what Brad said, which is is Brad said at the beginning of the year, Brad said at the beginning of the year, we went into this year with this massive

[01:09:50] we went into this year with this massive CapEx, this massive investment CapEx, this massive investment infrastructure, but people weren't sure infrastructure, but people weren't sure that the ROI was going to be there in that the ROI was going to be there in terms of model revenue. And that was terms of model revenue. And that was true, and then the model revenue has true, and then the model revenue has proven out. And now what Chamath is proven out. And now what Chamath is saying is that we're going to be at saying is that we're going to be at another fork in the road soon in terms another fork in the road soon in terms of whether there's going to be ROI of whether there's going to be ROI on all those tokens that are being sold on all those tokens that are being sold and generating the revenue for those and generating the revenue for those model companies. And I agree with you model companies. And I agree with you that that is not proven out yet, but I'm that that is not proven out yet, but I'm optimistic that it is going to be proven optimistic that it is going to be proven out and otherwise these you wouldn't be

[01:10:22] out and otherwise these you wouldn't be seeing Look, I enterprises continue to seeing Look, I enterprises continue to to buy. Hold on, let me just finish my to buy. Hold on, let me just finish my point. point. You wouldn't be seeing enterprise You wouldn't be seeing enterprise continue their month-over-month spend continue their month-over-month spend on coding tokens if they didn't feel on coding tokens if they didn't feel like the ROI was going to be there. But like the ROI was going to be there. But you make a good point, which is what is you make a good point, which is what is the impact on the economy going to be the impact on the economy going to be when all of this new stuff where this when all of this new stuff where this bespoke software that's being created bespoke software that's being created through again all these coding tokens through again all these coding tokens that are being bought is going to power that are being bought is going to power a wave of productivity like I think a wave of productivity like I think we've never seen before. So I think what we've never seen before. So I think what you're seeing is the ROI is getting is

[01:10:54] you're seeing is the ROI is getting is sort of trickling down from sort of trickling down from infrastructure to model to application infrastructure to model to application to end user. And I think it's going to to end user. And I think it's going to create an economic boom. I got I got it. create an economic boom. I got I got it. I'm with you, Sachs. It's This is déjà I'm with you, Sachs. It's This is déjà vu all over again. We watched this vu all over again. We watched this happen with the PC revolution, the happen with the PC revolution, the internet revolution, cloud revolution, internet revolution, cloud revolution, mobile revolution. We had all this mobile revolution. We had all this hand-wringing. Will this ever pay off? hand-wringing. Will this ever pay off? Should I build an app? Should I build a Should I build an app? Should I build a website? Should I not? Should I move to website? Should I not? Should I move to the cloud? Should I keep it on prem? All the cloud? Should I keep it on prem? All of these questions over and over and of these questions over and over and over again. And then they went from over again. And then they went from question marks to exclamation points. I question marks to exclamation points. I can tell you inside of my firm, we have can tell you inside of my firm, we have started We were using agents then we

[01:11:25] started We were using agents then we started building code. And I've got started building code. And I've got three people on the team who are making three people on the team who are making all the interfaces and products that a all the interfaces and products that a 22-person 22-person investment firm should not be making investment firm should not be making internally. They should be using SaaS internally. They should be using SaaS software. And they are shipping product software. And they are shipping product day in and day out. The ROI is fait day in and day out. The ROI is fait accompli, Brad. It is fait accompli. I accompli, Brad. It is fait accompli. I think this has been decided. I think think this has been decided. I think it's been decided. It has not been it's been decided. It has not been decided at all. It has not been decided decided at all. It has not been decided at all. You have 80/90. You're working at all. You have 80/90. You're working with the big enterprises. I invest in with the big enterprises. I invest in 100 startups a year. I work with the 100 startups a year. I work with the small ones. It is fait accompli with

[01:11:55] small ones. It is fait accompli with startups. They are building software. startups. They are building software. They're shipping. They are getting They're shipping. They are getting massive value from these tokens. And massive value from these tokens. And they're getting so much value that they they're getting so much value that they don't have to add, you know, but half don't have to add, you know, but half the number of employees that they would the number of employees that they would with the same amount of capital. They're with the same amount of capital. They're getting further with less money. It is getting further with less money. It is working in startup land. I don't know working in startup land. I don't know what's happening at 80/90. You would what's happening at 80/90. You would have a better picture, obviously, of the have a better picture, obviously, of the enterprise. Tell us what you see there. enterprise. Tell us what you see there. I mean, our business is doing well, but I mean, our business is doing well, but what I'm trying to get across to you what I'm trying to get across to you guys is that guys is that you can't will

[01:12:25] you can't will profits to go up. profits to go up. Okay? So, ultimately what happens is I'm Okay? So, ultimately what happens is I'm just going to take a company randomly. just going to take a company randomly. Anheuser-Busch. Anheuser-Busch. They have to eventually sell more beer. They have to eventually sell more beer. Okay? Take Nike. Okay? Take Nike. They ultimately have to sell more shoes. They ultimately have to sell more shoes. Take Take a medical devices company. They have to a medical devices company. They have to sell more artificial hips and knees. sell more artificial hips and knees. So, the The I'm trying to get across is So, the The I'm trying to get across is right now there's an enormous amount of right now there's an enormous amount of very constructive and creative

[01:12:56] very constructive and creative experimentation. experimentation. But I think it's what is also true is a But I think it's what is also true is a lot of that lot of that has not yet proven value. I don't think has not yet proven value. I don't think that means it's going to stop. All I'm that means it's going to stop. All I'm just trying to say is just trying to say is until a company can trace very directly until a company can trace very directly I spent X and I made Y where Y is now I spent X and I made Y where Y is now greater than X and it's lifted my greater than X and it's lifted my margins margins that is the thing that causes the that is the thing that causes the flywheel to spin faster. flywheel to spin faster. And right now we've started the first And right now we've started the first part of that equation. We've spent the part of that equation. We've spent the X.

[01:13:28] X. And we have not seen the Y. And we have not seen the Y. You would see it in global GDP. You You would see it in global GDP. You haven't. You would see it in global haven't. You would see it in global productivity. You haven't. You would see productivity. You haven't. You would see it in the global profit margins of the it in the global profit margins of the S&amp;P 500. We haven't. It doesn't mean S&amp;P 500. We haven't. It doesn't mean it's not coming. Brad, you want to you it's not coming. Brad, you want to you want to pick up on this because I yeah, want to pick up on this because I yeah, I'm definitely taking the other side of I'm definitely taking the other side of it cuz I'm seeing with a lot of these it cuz I'm seeing with a lot of these companies massive lowering of costs. companies massive lowering of costs. Their ads are getting more effective. At Their ads are getting more effective. At the same time they've stopped hiring. the same time they've stopped hiring. They're not adding positions in a lot of They're not adding positions in a lot of cases. And things like just pick the cases. And things like just pick the Nike example

[01:13:59] Nike example a lot of the photo shoots a lot of the photo shoots they used to do for their app, excuse they used to do for their app, excuse me. A lot of the imagery they used to me. A lot of the imagery they used to make now they're able to make more of it make now they're able to make more of it without having to hire photographers and without having to hire photographers and do that stuff. I know this example cuz do that stuff. I know this example cuz we have a startup that does this we have a startup that does this specifically for brands like Nike. specifically for brands like Nike. They've seen a massive drop. We have one They've seen a massive drop. We have one that helped DoorDash with their food that helped DoorDash with their food pictures. All those pictures used to pictures. All those pictures used to have to be taken by photographers. Now have to be taken by photographers. Now it's all done by AI. Massive reduction it's all done by AI. Massive reduction in cost and they're using ads and ad in cost and they're using ads and ad creative now at that is, you know, you creative now at that is, you know, you know, double-digit percentage more know, double-digit percentage more effective while costing half as much. So

[01:14:30] effective while costing half as much. So I definitely think we're seeing it on I definitely think we're seeing it on the earnings. But is is that true? Are the earnings. But is is that true? Are you seeing it in the earnings of these you seeing it in the earnings of these companies yet? Yeah, so so two data companies yet? Yeah, so so two data points. Number one, we just saw Azure points. Number one, we just saw Azure grow 39% in the quarter. We saw Google grow 39% in the quarter. We saw Google Cloud grow 63% in the quarter. Headcount Cloud grow 63% in the quarter. Headcount growth for those companies the last 3 growth for those companies the last 3 years mag 5 combined is about 3%. So years mag 5 combined is about 3%. So their operating margins are all their operating margins are all expanding. If you look at the S&amp;P 500 expanding. If you look at the S&amp;P 500 writ large in Q1 of 24 operating margins writ large in Q1 of 24 operating margins were about 11.8% were about 11.8% that was up from 11% in 23. This year

[01:15:03] that was up from 11% in 23. This year they're 13%. So we've had a 200 basis they're 13%. So we've had a 200 basis point improvement in the operating point improvement in the operating margins of the S&amp;P 500 which is massive. margins of the S&amp;P 500 which is massive. Do you think that's AI across those Do you think that's AI across those businesses? businesses? &gt;&gt; I think that that's the question where &gt;&gt; I think that that's the question where where it could dovetail with what you're where it could dovetail with what you're saying. It's dollars to donuts it's not saying. It's dollars to donuts it's not AI. Yeah, so I So but any amount of AI. Yeah, so I So but any amount of money is not AI. I bet you it's the same money is not AI. I bet you it's the same financial engineering that got these financial engineering that got these earnings to rise in the last decade. earnings to rise in the last decade. Yeah, so I I I think that's the Yeah, so I I I think that's the question. Are Is this margin expansion question. Are Is this margin expansion durable? The forecast the consensus

[01:15:35] durable? The forecast the consensus forecast and estimate is that margins forecast and estimate is that margins are going to continue to expand over the are going to continue to expand over the course of the next 2 years. You and I course of the next 2 years. You and I both know back in 22 23 we went from the both know back in 22 23 we went from the age of excess to the age of fitness, age of excess to the age of fitness, right? A lot of these companies were right? A lot of these companies were able to shed people, you know, with the able to shed people, you know, with the excuse of AI just because they had excuse of AI just because they had become you know, become you know, too excessive during the period of too excessive during the period of COVID. So I I think it's a legitimate COVID. So I I think it's a legitimate question whether or not that's all from question whether or not that's all from AI, but I will tell you anecdotally it AI, but I will tell you anecdotally it maps for me. I'm hearing like Jason and

[01:16:05] maps for me. I'm hearing like Jason and David a lot of these companies that are David a lot of these companies that are you know, really growing their top lines you know, really growing their top lines at an accelerating rate without at an accelerating rate without expanding head count nearly at the same expanding head count nearly at the same pace. Okay. Sacks, I'll give you the pace. Okay. Sacks, I'll give you the final word while we're at it. Brad was final word while we're at it. Brad was talking about how we got all these talking about how we got all these operating efficiency improvements. The operating efficiency improvements. The unemployment rate stayed at historic unemployment rate stayed at historic lows during that time. I mean the lows during that time. I mean the economists consider full employment to economists consider full employment to be 4 to 5%. And we've stayed at you be 4 to 5%. And we've stayed at you know, the low low 4% 4.2% roughly during know, the low low 4% 4.2% roughly during this time. So you're able to get these

[01:16:36] this time. So you're able to get these efficiency improvements while efficiency improvements while unemployment is still extremely low. unemployment is still extremely low. Moreover, there was just a big article Moreover, there was just a big article saying that the unemployment rate for saying that the unemployment rate for young college graduates has dropped. So, young college graduates has dropped. So, you know, there was this whole narrative you know, there was this whole narrative recently that recent college graduates recently that recent college graduates were going to have the hardest time were going to have the hardest time finding jobs because you know, there's finding jobs because you know, there's going to be no no work left for going to be no no work left for entry-level jobs because of AI. And in entry-level jobs because of AI. And in fact, it has gotten easier for recent fact, it has gotten easier for recent college graduates to find work recently. college graduates to find work recently. Maybe that's because they're AI natives. Maybe that's because they're AI natives. Maybe that's because they know how to

[01:17:06] Maybe that's because they know how to use AI better. use AI better. So, in any event, I mean, we're just not So, in any event, I mean, we're just not seeing any evidence yet of these seeing any evidence yet of these theoretical downsides of AI around job theoretical downsides of AI around job loss and unemployment. And we are loss and unemployment. And we are starting to see big productivity gains. starting to see big productivity gains. Yeah. I mean, this is going to be a Yeah. I mean, this is going to be a circular discussion, but yeah, there's a circular discussion, but yeah, there's a lot of conflicting evidence. The last lot of conflicting evidence. The last piece of conflicting evidence, piece of conflicting evidence, obviously, is the labor participation obviously, is the labor participation rate because if you are not even opting rate because if you are not even opting into participate, then you into participate, then you you know, don't get counted as you know, don't get counted as unemployed. And that's been, I think, a unemployed. And that's been, I think, a big challenge. 61.9% in March labor

[01:17:38] big challenge. 61.9% in March labor participation rate. participation rate. Back in before COVID, we were at 63.3. Back in before COVID, we were at 63.3. Yeah, and college graduates are hearing Yeah, and college graduates are hearing different stories. Certain degrees different stories. Certain degrees getting jobs, other ones not getting getting jobs, other ones not getting jobs. jobs. It's too early to tell. Uh I think is It's too early to tell. Uh I think is probably what we all agree in. And it's probably what we all agree in. And it's a it's a mixed bag. No, no, I don't a it's a mixed bag. No, no, I don't agree with that. No. Which Look, agree with that. No. Which Look, whenever whenever I have data to refute whenever whenever I have data to refute one of your narratives, you always say one of your narratives, you always say it's too soon to tell. it's too soon to tell. No, no, no. What I Headline, Wall Street No, no, no. What I Headline, Wall Street Journal. Nick, put it on the screen. Journal. Nick, put it on the screen. College graduates are finally catching a College graduates are finally catching a break in this job market. Yeah. J. Kyle,

[01:18:08] break in this job market. Yeah. J. Kyle, you should be happy about this. you should be happy about this. &gt;&gt; I know. I'm Listen, I'm happy anybody &gt;&gt; I know. I'm Listen, I'm happy anybody gets a job. But what you do is then you gets a job. But what you do is then you say we don't trust the numbers and we say we don't trust the numbers and we should get rid of the Fed and we should should get rid of the Fed and we should get rid of the numbers. I also said get get rid of the numbers. I also said get rid of the Fed. No, that was Schmo I was rid of the Fed. No, that was Schmo I was saying But you you told us Schmo to get saying But you you told us Schmo to get rid of the Fed cuz we don't like the rid of the Fed cuz we don't like the numbers. Listen, it's all great. Welcome numbers. Listen, it's all great. Welcome to the debate club. What did I say? You to the debate club. What did I say? You said abolish the Fed. said abolish the Fed. Abolish the Fed. Abolish the Fed. What is the Fed here for? All right, What is the Fed here for? All right, listen. Enough. We're getting into Trump listen. Enough. We're getting into Trump Derangement Syndrome or Trump Ben the Derangement Syndrome or Trump Ben the Knee Syndrome. It's the end of the show. Knee Syndrome. It's the end of the show. We had a great show, everybody. We had We had a great show, everybody. We had some laughs. We all learned. We

[01:18:39] some laughs. We all learned. We workshopped some stuff. Let's leave it workshopped some stuff. Let's leave it where it is. Great job, President Trump. where it is. Great job, President Trump. &gt;&gt; to I want to congratulate Oh, here we &gt;&gt; to I want to congratulate Oh, here we go. go. I want to congratulate all of our I want to congratulate all of our innovators, and I want to congratulate innovators, and I want to congratulate Elon and um Dario De Rockefeller on Elon and um Dario De Rockefeller on their recent deal. Oh, SHOTS [laughter] their recent deal. Oh, SHOTS [laughter] FIRED. THIS IS GETTING STRAIGHT. Come on FIRED. THIS IS GETTING STRAIGHT. Come on the program anytime, Dario. Hey, you the program anytime, Dario. Hey, you know Dario well, Brad. Get him on the know Dario well, Brad. Get him on the program. Next week, I want him on the program. Next week, I want him on the program. Have him come on. I mean, I I program. Have him come on. I mean, I I I'm going to ask Ask him for me. I'm going to ask Ask him for me. I I um Will you ask him for me? um Will you ask him for me? Well, I I sure I'll ask him. And you you

[01:19:10] Well, I I sure I'll ask him. And you you you know, the the the the fact of the you know, the the the the fact of the matter is matter is I thank our lucky stars that we have I thank our lucky stars that we have Elon, that we have Anthropic, that we Elon, that we have Anthropic, that we have OpenAI, that we have Google, that have OpenAI, that we have Google, that we have Amazon all innovating in this we have Amazon all innovating in this country. And you know, I know we like to country. And you know, I know we like to you know, kind of poke poke fun on the you know, kind of poke poke fun on the edges of these things, but the fact of edges of these things, but the fact of the matter is the matter is you know, I see them all you know, I see them all showing up, sharing their models, showing up, sharing their models, driving as hard as they can to innovate. driving as hard as they can to innovate. We have the best competitive framework We have the best competitive framework in the country. David's right, it's been

[01:19:41] in the country. David's right, it's been transformed over the course of the last transformed over the course of the last 14 months. We need to stay the course. 14 months. We need to stay the course. We're on the winning horse. We just had We're on the winning horse. We just had the Derby last week. the Derby last week. &gt;&gt; There it is. On the winning horse. Stay &gt;&gt; There it is. On the winning horse. Stay on the horse. America for the win. on the horse. America for the win. America for the win. There it is, America for the win. There it is, Senator Brad Gerstner. I think if you're Senator Brad Gerstner. I think if you're going to run, you got to get rid of the going to run, you got to get rid of the red glasses. We got to get rid of the red glasses. We got to get rid of the corduroy [laughter] shorts in there. But corduroy [laughter] shorts in there. But yeah, I think you got a you got a yeah, I think you got a you got a serious shot, Senator. Senator Gerstner. serious shot, Senator. Senator Gerstner. &gt;&gt; I like I like secretary better. &gt;&gt; I like I like secretary better. Secretary. Secretary. Uh Who's Yeah, Secretary. Secretary. Uh Who's Yeah, Secretary of the Treasury, Brad

[01:20:11] Secretary of the Treasury, Brad Gerstner. Secretary of Secretary of Gerstner. Secretary of Secretary of State, David Sacks. Secretary of State, David Sacks. Secretary of Cashmere and Wine, Chamath Palihapitiya. Cashmere and Wine, Chamath Palihapitiya. How are you doing with your There's so How are you doing with your There's so much fake news out there because I mean, much fake news out there because I mean, look, I totally agree with everything look, I totally agree with everything Brad said. Look, I poke fun at at some Brad said. Look, I poke fun at at some of these companies for some of the of these companies for some of the things they do, but I am happy that they things they do, but I am happy that they are American companies and that they're are American companies and that they're innovating here. innovating here. &gt;&gt; Congratulations on your Metaverse deal. &gt;&gt; Congratulations on your Metaverse deal. Absolutely. Yes. And look, there's so Absolutely. Yes. And look, there's so much fake news out there. I mean, we much fake news out there. I mean, we just covered on this podcast how just covered on this podcast how beneficial some of these economic trends

[01:20:41] beneficial some of these economic trends are. You never get it from the media. are. You never get it from the media. And they are trying to derail us from And they are trying to derail us from from, you know, the the policies that from, you know, the the policies that have been so successful. Yes, but they have been so successful. Yes, but they did some great inspiring coverage of did some great inspiring coverage of micro looting, so get your micro looting micro looting, so get your micro looting on. on. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; Congratulations New York Times. We'll &gt;&gt; Congratulations New York Times. We'll see you next time everybody. Bye-bye. see you next time everybody. Bye-bye. Love you boys. Love you best. Love you boys. Love you best. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; Let your winners ride. &gt;&gt; Let your winners ride. Rain Man David Sacks. And [music] I said, we open sourced it to the fans and they've just gone crazy

[01:21:13] to the fans and they've just gone crazy with it. Love you Wes. I'm Queen of with it. Love you Wes. I'm Queen of Quinoa. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; Let the winners ride. Besties are back. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; That is my dog taking a in your &gt;&gt; That is my dog taking a in your driveway, Sacks. Wait a minute. driveway, Sacks. Wait a minute. Oh man. My hot Natasha will meet me at Oh man. My hot Natasha will meet me at the Russian Tea Room. We [music] should the Russian Tea Room. We [music] should all just get a room and just have a one all just get a room and just have a one big huge orgy cuz they're all just big huge orgy cuz they're all just useless. It's like this like sexual useless. It's like this like sexual tension that they just need to release tension that they just need to release somehow. somehow. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; What? You're a big baby. Wipe your

[01:21:44] &gt;&gt; What? You're a big baby. Wipe your little tear face. What? What? little tear face. What? What? &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; We need to get merch. &gt;&gt; We need to get merch. &gt;&gt; Besties are back. &gt;&gt; Besties are back. I'm going all in. I'm going all in. &gt;&gt; [music] &gt;&gt; I'm going [music] all in.